The recent rush to buy basic necessities after Singapore raised its Covid-19 alert level reflected anxiety and was an irrational response that showed the worst of Singaporeans, said Professor Yaacob Ibrahim (Jalan Besar GRC).
"Chaos could have broken out, leading to unimaginable losses. This is something we all don't want to happen in Singapore," he said during the debate on the Budget statement in Parliament on Wednesday (Feb 26).
Prof Yaacob was one of several MPs who commented on the panic buying behaviour on the Feb 7 to Feb 9 weekend, after Singapore's Disease Outbreak Response System Condition (Dorscon) was raised from yellow to orange.
He said the rush to stock up food and sundry items shows the importance of getting communications right in a crisis.
Noting that there was no social media during the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreak, Prof Yaacob said Singaporeans today are inundated with all manner of news from various sources.
"The fundamental question is whether we trust the Government in telling us what is the right thing to do especially during a crisis," he said.
"Rumours and misinformation about lack of supplies helped to fuel senseless hoarding. This shows a lack of trust."
Mr Seah Kian Peng (Marine Parade GRC), who is FairPrice Group chief executive, said he witnessed the "shopping frenzy" at first hand, and people of all ages, races and social strata were among the shoppers that weekend.
"To instil calm to all, NTUC FairPrice instituted a variety of measures, including imposing purchase limits on some items," said Mr Seah, adding that the move was criticised by some but supported by most people.
He said that those who had bought too much will be encouraged to donate their excess stocks to the Food Bank or Food from the Heart charity, instead of trying to get a refund.
Mr Seah added that he would rather remember the long queues at blood banks rather than the queues at supermarkets.
"Two weeks ago, the Red Cross Singapore called for Singaporeans to donate their blood, as blood stock levels for some blood types were running critically low. Many came forward - there were crowds of Singaporeans at the four blood banks around the island."
Mr Ang Hin Kee (Ang Mo Kio GRC) said in Mandarin that most Singaporeans faced the coronavirus disease outbreak calmly and did not panic.
He added that the biggest test during this period will be whether Singaporeans can demonstrate confidence and cooperation while facing the outbreak, not whether they can stock up on groceries or protect their own individual health.
Shincheonji: The secretive sect in South Korea's COVID-19 outbreak
SEOUL: The secretive South Korean religious group at the centre of the country's new coronavirus outbreak is a sprawling network so wealthy it can mobilise thousands of believers to hold Pyongyang-style mass performances at Seoul's Olympic stadium.
It has more than 1,000 churches in South Korea and boasts more than 240,000 members worldwide. 
More than half of the country's nearly 1,600 infections are linked to Shincheonji followers.
"TEMPLE OF GOD"
Shincheonji - in full the Shincheonji Church of Jesus, the Temple of the Tabernacle of the Testimony - was founded in 1984 by Lee Man-hee, now 88.
In Korean, Shincheonji means "new heaven and earth". 
READ: South Korea reports 334 additional coronavirus cases, raising total to 1,595
Said to be a cult by critics, it describes itself on its website as "the one and only kingdom and temple of God on this earth", pledging to yield to the will of Jesus "by sacrificing our bodies like a candle".
Shincheonji proclaims Lee has donned the mantle of Jesus Christ and will take 144,000 people with him to heaven on the day of judgment.
 Workers from a disinfection service company sanitize a branch of the Shincheonji Church of Jesus the Temple of the Tabernacle of the Testimony where a woman known as "Patient 31" attended a service in Daegu, South Korea, February 19, 2020. Yonhap via REUTERS
It seeks recruits surreptitiously by dispatching its members to mainstream Protestant congregations to try to persuade their believers - a tactic that has prompted many churches to issue warnings to keep them at bay.
Church members are also known for proselytising in secret and not revealing their identities, which makes it hard for people to know if they have been in contact with a member, said an NPR report. 
There has been a public uproar as health authorities said they were struggling to reach out to Shincheonji members in Daegu but hundreds have not responded, said the Korea Herald.
PATIENT 31
At their own services Shincheonji members are forbidden to wear glasses, necklaces and earrings.
They sit close together on the floor without chairs and desks, praying extensively in what critics say creates an ideal environment to spread viral infections.
Explore: Real-time interactive map of all the confirmed cases reported around the world
READ: More COVID-19 new infections outside China than inside: WHO
According to a former church member Duhyen Kim, congregants were told not to wear masks while praying as it was "disrespectful to God to have masks on", CNN reported.
The church also took roll call and frowned upon members calling in sick, Kim said.
The outbreak among its followers began with Patient 31, a 61-year-old female member.
She developed a fever on Feb 10, but attended at least four church services in Daegu - the country's fourth-largest city and the epicentre of the outbreak - before being diagnosed.
GLOBAL REACH
After days of mounting public anger, Shincheonji has handed over a list of 212,000 members to authorities to enable them to be checked for coronavirus symptoms.
But reports say it has previously boasted of more than 240,000 members, raising doubts over the accuracy of the roster.
READ: South Korea starts COVID-19 checks on more than 200,000 sect members
Shincheonji has 12 branches in South Korea that it calls "the 12 Tribes", each named after one of Jesus' disciples.
It says on its website it has mission centres in 15 countries around the world, including China and the United States, and that hundreds of pastors have renounced their ordinations to join it.
CNN reported that in January, thousands of Shincheonji members assembled for an annual gathering at the group's headquarters in Gwacheon, near Seoul.
Then, between Jan 31 and Feb 2, an unknown number of members came together for the funeral of the founder's brother, who was said to have been hospitalised at Cheongdo Daenam Hospital.
The hospital is the second hotspot for the virus within South Korea, with 114 virus cases. More than half of the 13 fatalities in the country are linked to the hospital.
MASS EVENTS
Shincheonji has been so successful that it has been able to mobilise thousands of followers to hold mass displays at high-profile venues - such as Seoul's Jamsil Olympic Stadium in 2012, home to the 1988 Games.
Hundreds of performers enacted biblical scenes and motifs on the pitch, while thousands turned the coloured pages of books in sequence, creating an ever-changing backdrop of giant images rippling across one side of the stadium.
COVID-19: Panic buying shows 'lack of trust' in government's crisis messaging, says Yaacob Ibrahim
 
SINGAPORE — The “irrational” panic buying of provisions in response to the raising of the country’s outbreak response level shows a “lack of trust” in the government telling Singaporeans what is the right thing to do especially during a crisis, said Jalan Besar GRC Member of Parliament Professor Yaacob Ibrahim on Wednesday (26 February).
“Rumours and misinformation about the lack of supplies help to fuel senseless hoarding. It shows a lack of trust; chaos could have broken out leading to unimaginable losses. This is something we all don't want to happen in Singapore,” said the former communications and information minister during his Budget 2020 debate speech in Parliament.
He noted that the rush to stock up supplies over the weekend following the 7 February announcement that the Disease Outbreak Response System Condition (Dorson) level will be raised from yellow to orange due to the COVID-19 outbreak is a reminder that “getting communications right is very important”.
“During SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreak in 2003), there was no social media. Today, we are inundated by news of all sorts of various platforms, and from friends and strangers alike,” Prof Yaacob explained.
“The fundamental question is whether we trust the government in telling us what is the right thing to do, especially during a crisis.”
FairPrice Group CEO Seah Kian Peng spoke in Parliament earlier on the same day about the “shopping frenzy” during the period, saying the cooperative’s measures to limit purchase of some items attracted criticisms from “a minority group”.
POFMA an issue of trust
Another issue of trust in the government concerns the Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (POFMA), which some view as an attempt to stifle dissent on the internet, said Prof Yaacob.
“There is a sense among them that the government is using this legislation for its own agenda, rather than serving the needs of all people,” he added.
Last month in Parliament, Minister of Communications and Information S Iswaran had called it “a coincidence” that the first few cases brought under the law were against political figures and parties.
Prof Yaacob noted that he is “all too familiar” with such concerns, citing his move to license online news sites in 2013 when he was still in the Cabinet.
Several internet groups had then alleged that the move would kill the diversity of voices on the internet, said Prof Yaacob.
“As it turns out, the licensing scheme did not stifle the internet at all. Many groups continue to flourish on the internet,” he added.
“All we wanted – and I'm sure all of us can agree to this – is responsible behaviour on the internet, especially when the issues affect the lives of so many Singaporeans.”
Prof Yaacob stressed that the issue of trust “will continue to arise” as Singapore grapple with increasingly complex issues, such as climate changes and technological advances.
Dealing with the effects of climate change will “raise many questions” about how the government should best use its limited fiscal resources for the good of Singapore, he noted.
“And the government would need to build trust that it is doing what is right for people, even though it means spending significant resources for a very long term period to benefit future generations,” Prof Yaacob added.
Trust can be eroded if technological concerns not dealt with
On technology, while Singaporeans trust that the government is using the data captured – from closed-circuit television cameras in void decks and other common areas – for good, it is not the case in other countries.
“In places like San Francisco, the residents have voted against having videos in public places. For our own digitisation efforts to succeed, people must trust that the data is collected solely for the purpose of developing useful services for them,” he said.
By all accounts, while Singapore has done well in this area thus far, Prof Yaacob pointed out that it is not inconceivable for some people to raise the issues of data privacy.
The emergence of data protection legislation overseas, such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act, may also cause some to wonder whether Singapore’s Personal Data Protection Act is sufficiently rigorous.
“My intent in raising this issue is that for all of us to be cognisant of the potential hazards awaiting us in our journey towards digitalising of our economy and society,” said Prof Yaacob.
The questions of trust brought about by the use of technology in everyday lives can range from whether the government can protect Singaporeans from being manipulated by the big tech giants to whether Singaporeans can trust the government to use “personal data for the benefit of all Singaporeans and not (for) some political agenda”.
“We have seen how trust is broken down in other societies leading to the rise of populism and with social media, and the rise of misinformation and alternative facts, sometimes it is unclear whether the lack of trust in government is an effect of these developments, or is it the cause of the rise of other alternative centres of trust,” he noted.
Citing Singaporeans’ high trust in public institutions here to do what is right, Prof Yaacob suggested for the Republic to consider creating an independent digital commission to build trust in ensuring new technologies, such as artificial intelligence and the use of machine learning algorithms, are used correctly.
“We cannot avoid the nagging concerns of privacy and transparency that digitalisation will bring. If we do not deal with this early, then trust in government can be eroded,” he added.

Singapore
COVID-19 outbreak: 67% of Singaporean households have collected face masks
SINGAPORE: About a third of Singapore households have collected face masks from nearby community centres or clubs (CC), the People's Association (PA) said on Thursday (Feb 27).

As of Wednesday, about 67 per cent of the 1.37 million local households had collected the masks, PA said.
The latest update comes after the deadline for mask collection was extended from Feb 9 to the end of the month.

Those who have not collected the masks have until Saturday to do so during opening hours at the CC located in their constituency.
Following a rise in COVID-19 cases in Singapore, the demand for surgical masks spiked and National Development Minister Lawrence Wong announced that each Singapore household will get four masks.

Mr Wong had said the distribution is a "one-time exercise" where masks from Singapore’s national stockpile are being released directly to the public, to ensure every family has access to masks if they need them.

"We are heartened that residents were mindful and only collected the masks if their family needed them," said PA on Thursday.

Uncollected masks will be returned to the national stockpile after Feb 29 to "ensure that our health institutions and those in need can have access to the necessary supplies". 

The association also extended thanks to volunteers who helped with the mask distribution efforts. 

"This spirit of stepping forward, working together and looking out for each other will help us overcome the challenges ahead, as one community," it said.
Iran reports 7 more deaths from COVID-19, 106 new cases
TEHRAN: Iran's Health Ministry on Thursday (Feb 27) confirmed seven more deaths from COVID-19, taking the total to 26, the highest toll outside China.

A total of 106 cases were confirmed in the last 24 hours, the ministry added. This brings the number of those infected by the coronavirus to 245.
Iran has been trying to contain COVID-19 since Wednesday last week when it announced the first two deaths in Qom, a centre for Islamic studies and pilgrims that attracts scholars from abroad.
Its authorities have closed schools, universities, cultural centres, sporting events and deployed teams of sanitary workers to disinfect buses, trains and public spaces.

A second high-profile politician announced that he had been infected with the coronavirus.
The announcement by the chairman of the Iranian parliament's national security and foreign affairs committee Mojtaba Zolnour follows that of deputy health minister Iraj Harirchi, the head of the government's coronavirus task force, on Tuesday.

A Shi'ite cleric, Zolnour is a member of parliament for the central shrine city of Qom, where Iran's first COVID-19 case was detected on Feb 19.
On Wednesday, Iranian authorities announced domestic travel restrictions for people with confirmed or suspected infections.

They also placed curbs on access to major Shi'ite pilgrimage sites, including the Imam Reza shrine in second city Mashhad and the Fatima Masumeh shrine in Qom.

International health experts have expressed concern about Iran's handling of the outbreak.

But health ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour insisted Wednesday that the situation was "improving".
South Korea reports 505 new COVID-19 cases, raising total to 1,766
SEOUL: South Korea reported 505 additional COVID-19 infections in its largest daily increase on Thursday (Feb 27), as the United States issued a new warning against travel to the Asian nation.

Both US and South Korean forces also postponed a joint drill.
The new cases take total infections to 1,766, the Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (KCDC) said, the largest daily jump since the first confirmed infection on Jan 20. 

South Korea also reported a 13th death.

Of the new cases, 422 were in the southeastern city of Daegu, the location of a church at the centre of South Korea's outbreak, the KCDC said in a statement.
The US State Department raised its travel advisory level, urging citizens to "reconsider travel" to South Korea.

In Seoul, the capital, people waited in long queues at some stores to buy masks, which have been in short supply, despite only a few dozen infections reported in the city.

The past week's sudden surge in cases has ignited criticism of the government's handling of the crisis, particularly a decision to limit arrivals from China, rather than imposing a blanket ban.

Feelings on the issue run so high that more than 1 million people have signed a petition demanding the impeachment of President Moon Jae-in.

The coronavirus that can lead to pneumonia is believed to have originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year before killing more than 2,700 and infecting about 80,000, the vast majority in China.

US-SOUTH KOREA JOINT MILITARY EXERCISES POSTPONED

The US military reported its first novel coronavirus case on Wednesday, in a 23-year-old soldier based in Camp Carroll, about 20km from Daegu.

About 28,500 US troops are stationed in South Korea, which remains technically at war with North Korea.

The South Korean military has also reported at least 21 infections, and has confined most troops to their bases.

Forthcoming joint military exercises between South Korea and the US have been postponed over the outbreak, the two countries announced on Thursday.

The decision was made after Seoul declared its highest "severe" alert level over the virus, Combined Forces Command said in a statement, adding the combined command post-training had been postponed "until further notice".

The US commander in South Korea agreed to the delay after a request by the chairman of its joint chiefs of staff.
The security allies have previously scaled back their annual joint military exercises significantly to facilitate nuclear talks with Pyongyang - which condemns such drills as preparations for an invasion - but a command coordination exercise had been planned for this spring.

On Thursday, media said a Korean Air flight attendant who tested positive for the virus had worked on flights between Seoul and Los Angeles.

The attendant had been on a Korean Air KE958 flight from Israel to Incheon on Feb 15 and Feb 16, the KCDC has said. Passengers included a South Korea tour group among whom 31 virus cases were seen to have originated.

The agency has not released details of other routes and flights flown by the employee.

Yonhap News Agency and other media said she worked on flights KE017 and KE012 on Feb 19 and Feb 20 to and from Los Angeles. About 30 crew on the same flights are in self-quarantine for 14 days, media added.

The US may in future have to curb travel to Italy, South Korea and other countries over the virus, President Donald Trump said on Wednesday, but now was not the right time, he added.

South Korea has the most virus cases outside China and Italy and Iran are emerging as new epicentres of the rapidly spreading illness. 

12 new Covid-19 cases in S'pore, including RSAF servicemen who were in France on duty
The National Centre for Infectious Diseases at Tan Tock Seng Hospital. The Ministry of Health announced 12 new coronavirus cases on March 11, 2020.
The National Centre for Infectious Diseases at Tan Tock Seng Hospital. The Ministry of Health announced 12 new coronavirus cases on March 11, 2020.ST PHOTO: KUA CHEE SIONG
PUBLISHEDMAR 11, 2020, 8:16 PM SGTUPDATEDMAR 12, 2020, 12:26 AM
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Lim Min Zhang 
SINGAPORE - A total of 12 new Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in Singapore, including three Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) servicemen who were in France on duty.

In an update on Wednesday (March 11), the Ministry of Health said that a case confirmed on Tuesday is also an RSAF serviceman who was in France. This means that at least four servicemen are now infected.

Of the 12 new coronavirus cases, eight, including the RSAF personnel, are imported, which means that they caught the disease overseas.


This is the largest number of imported cases Singapore has seen in a day and comes as countries around the world struggle to contain the virus.

The other imported cases involve people who travelled recently to France, Indonesia, Japan, Spain, the Philippines, Britain and the United States.

Of the four locally transmitted cases, one is linked to the private dinner at Safra Jurong; another, a staff nurse at Ng Teng Fong General Hospital, is linked to an imported case from the Philippines; while contact tracing is ongoing for the other two.


There are now 40 cases linked to the the dinner at the Joy Garden restaurant on Feb 15, Singapore's biggest coronavirus cluster.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

The latest update brings the total number of cases here to 178. Three more patients have been discharged, which means that 96 have so far recovered.

As of Wednesday, nine were in critical condition in the intensive care unit.


MOH identifying 95 Singaporeans at religious gathering in Malaysia after Covid-19 cases confirmed
Latest updates from Singapore's Ministry of Health put the number of confirmed cases of infections here at 178, of whom 96 have recovered and been discharged.
Latest updates from Singapore's Ministry of Health put the number of confirmed cases of infections here at 178, of whom 96 have recovered and been discharged.PHOTO: ST FILE
PUBLISHED7 HOURS AGO
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Clement Yong 
SINGAPORE - Singaporeans have been urged to be mindful of Covid-19 when carrying out their religious practices, as reports emerge that 95 Singaporeans had attended a mass religious gathering in Malaysia in which several cases of the coronavirus were confirmed.

Environment and Water Resources Minister Masagos Zulkifli said in a Facebook post on Thursday (March 12) that the Ministry of Health is in the midst of identifying and investigating the Singaporean attendees.

The event is believed to have taken place at a mosque on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur between Feb 27 and March 1, involving around 10,000 people from several countries.


The Malaysian authorities are currently tracking around 5,000 of its citizens who were at the gathering and who are believed to now have dispersed across the country.

In his post, Mr Masagos cited efforts made by the local Muslim community to limit contact as examples of good practices, coming at a time when the World Health Organisation has declared the outbreak a pandemic.

"For example, many are refraining from our usual handshake or 'Salam' and instead are adopting what I call the 'Mufti Salam', where one places his hand on his chest to convey his greetings.


"Many are also bringing their own personal prayer mats and paraphernalia to the mosque," he said.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

The total number of coronavirus cases worldwide has now exceeded 120,000, with the United States announcing the suspension of all travel from mainland Europe to the country for the next 30 days from Friday.

Latest updates from Singapore's Ministry of Health put the number of confirmed cases of infections here at 178, of whom 96 have recovered and been discharged.


Related Story
Coronavirus cases in Singapore: What we know so far
Related Story
Coronavirus 101: What do you want to know?
Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Mr Masagos in his Facebook post also reiterated that Singaporeans should "step up our personal hygiene and keep our public places clean to minimise the risk of disease transmission", even as Deputy Prime Minister Heng Swee Keat said on Wednesday that Singaporeans should be prepared for the situation to worsen.

Mr Masagos said Singaporeans should make three good practices their "new way of life": using tissues when sneezing or coughing, properly throwing tissues away in bins instead of leaving them on trays or tables, and refraining from attending group activities or social gatherings if feeling unwell.

Two churches have emerged as clusters here since the first imported case was reported on Jan 23.

In moves to curb the spread of the virus, churches have also taken precautionary steps, such as temporarily suspending services and moving them online, as well as getting congregants to fill in travel declaration forms when attending service.
MOH identifying 95 Singaporeans at mass religious event in Malaysia after COVID-19 cases confirmed: Masagos
FILE PHOTO: A Malaysian health quarantine officer waits for passengers at a thermal screening point
FILE PHOTO: A Malaysian health quarantine officer waits for passengers at a thermal screening point in the international arrivals terminal of Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang, Malaysia March 10, 2020. REUTERS/Lim Huey Teng
haziq
By Aqil Haziq Mahmud
@AqilHaziqCNA
12 Mar 2020 03:27PM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 04:19PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Singapore's health ministry is working to identify 95 Singaporeans who attended a three-day religious event on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur last month, after Brunei reported that its first case of COVID-19 had attended the same event.

The Jhor Qudamak Malaysia 2020 event took place between Feb 28 and Mar 1 at the Seri Petaling Mosque in Selangor.

Advertisement
Malaysia's health ministry has estimated that 10,000 people from several countries attended the event.

The 95 Singaporeans were among more than 1,500 foreign attendees, which included almost 700 Indonesians and more than 200 Filipinos, Malaysian media reported.

"I am concerned to hear that there were several COVID-19 cases confirmed, arising from a mass religious gathering in Malaysia," Minister-in-Charge of Muslim Affairs Masagos Zulkifli said in a Facebook post on Thursday (Mar 12).

"It was reported that 95 Singaporeans had attended the event. Ministry of Health, Singapore is in the midst of investigating and identifying the Singaporean attendees."

Advertisement

Malaysia called on Thursday for mass gatherings to be postponed after at least 12 COVID-19 cases were linked to the gathering of Islamic missionaries.

Eleven of the cases linked to the meeting have cropped up in people in Brunei who attended the meeting. The 12th case linked to the Kuala Lumpur meeting is a Malaysian, a health official said.

Malaysian authorities are also tracking about 5,000 of its citizens who took part in the event.

Brunei's first case was a 53-year-old man who returned from Kuala Lumpur on Mar 3 and started showing symptoms four days later, its health ministry said.

Malaysia reported 20 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, bringing its total to 149.


"If you were there, please get yourselves checked up by a doctor - protect your loved ones and those around you," Mr Masagos wrote.

"For those who are unwell, please seek medical attention immediately."

The minister said that the local Muslim community has taken "much effort" to adjust its religious practices during this challenging period, stating that people in Singapore must be vigilant when carrying out religious practices.

"For example, many are refraining from our usual handshake or 'salam' and instead are adopting what I call the 'Mufti Salam', where one places his hand on his chest to convey his greetings," he added.

"Many are also bringing their own personal prayer mats and paraphernalia to the mosque."

Mr Masagos, who is also Environment and Water Resources Minister, said that cleanliness and hygiene is Singapore's first line of defence against COVID-19 pandemic, and reiterated the importance of using tissues when sneezing or coughing and not attending social gatherings when unwell.

"Let us continue to exercise social responsibility, be vigilant," he wrote. "Together, we can overcome this challenge."

CNA has asked MOH for comment.
Can a face mask stop coronavirus? Covid-19 myths busted
The truth about how you can catch coronavirus, who is most vulnerable and what you can do to avoid infection

Coronavirus – latest news and updates
What are the symptoms and should I see a doctor?
How to protect yourself against coronavirus
Hannah Devlin, Science correspondent

 @hannahdev
Thu 12 Mar 2020 11.45 GMTFirst published on Thu 12 Mar 2020 11.00 GMT
Shares
60
4:31
 How to stop the spread of coronavirus – video explainer
Claim: ‘Face masks don’t work’
Wearing a face mask is certainly not an iron-clad guarantee that you won’t get sick – viruses can also transmit through the eyes and tiny viral particles, known as aerosols, can penetrate masks. However, masks are effective at capturing droplets, which is a main transmission route of coronavirus, and some studies have estimated a roughly fivefold protection versus no barrier alone (although others have found lower levels of effectiveness).

If you are likely to be in close contact with someone infected, a mask cuts the chance of the disease being passed on. If you’re showing symptoms of coronavirus, or have been diagnosed, wearing a mask can also protect others. So masks are crucial for health and social care workers looking after patients and are also recommended for family members who need to care for someone who is ill – ideally both the patient and carer should have a mask.

However, masks will probably make little difference if you’re just walking around town or taking a bus so there is no need to bulk-buy a huge supply.

Claim: ‘It is mutating into a more deadly strain’
All viruses accumulate mutations over time and the virus that causes Covid-19 is no different. How widespread different strains of a virus become depends on natural selection – the versions that can propagate quickest and replicate effectively in the body will be the most “successful”. This doesn’t necessarily mean most dangerous for people though, as viruses that kill people rapidly or make them so sick that they are incapacitated may be less likely to be transmitted.

Advertisement

Genetic analysis by Chinese scientists of 103 samples of the virus, taken from patients in Wuhan and other cities, suggests that early on two main strains emerged, designated L and S. Although the L strain appeared to be more prevalent than the S strain (about 70% of the samples belonged to the former), the S branch of the virus was found to be the ancestral version.

The team behind this research suggested that this may indicate the L strain is more “aggressive”, either transmitting more easily or replicating faster inside the body. However, this theory is speculative at this stage – there haven’t yet been direct comparisons to see whether people who catch one version of the virus are more likely to pass it on or suffer more severe symptoms.

Claim: ‘It is no more dangerous than winter flu’
Many individuals who get coronavirus will experience nothing worse than seasonal flu symptoms, but the overall profile of the disease, including its mortality rate, looks more serious. At the start of an outbreak the apparent mortality rate can be an overestimate if a lot of mild cases are being missed. But this week, a WHO expert suggested that this has not been the case with Covid-19. Bruce Aylward, who led an international mission to China to learn about the virus and the country’s response, said the evidence did not suggest that we were only seeing the tip of the iceberg. If borne out by further testing, this could mean that current estimates of a roughly 1% fatality rate are accurate. This would make Covid-19 about 10 times more deadly than seasonal flu, which is estimated to kill between 290,000 and 650,000 people a year globally.

Claim: ‘It only kills the elderly, so younger people can relax’
Most people who are not elderly and do not have underlying health conditions will not become critically ill from Covid-19. But the illness still has a higher chance of leading to serious respiratory symptoms than seasonal flu and there are other at-risk groups – health workers, for instance, are more vulnerable because they are likely to have higher exposure to the virus. The actions that young, healthy people take, including reporting symptoms and following quarantine instructions, will have an important role in protecting the most vulnerable in society and in shaping the overall trajectory of the outbreak.

Claim: ‘You need to be with an infected person for 10 minutes’
For flu, some hospital guidelines define exposure as being within six feet of an infected person who sneezes or coughs for 10 minutes or longer. However, it is possible to be infected with shorter interactions or even by picking the virus up from contaminated surfaces, although this is thought to be a less common route of transmission.

Claim: ‘A vaccine could be ready within a few months’
Scientists were quick out of the gates in beginning development of a vaccine for the new coronavirus, helped by the early release of the genetic sequence by Chinese researchers. The development of a viable vaccine continues apace, with several teams now testing candidates in animal experiments. However, the incremental trials required before a commercial vaccine could be rolled out are still a lengthy undertaking – and an essential one to ensure that even rare side-effects are spotted. A commercially available vaccine within a year would be quick.’

Claim: ‘If a pandemic is declared, there is nothing more we can do to stop the spread’
A pandemic is defined as worldwide spread of a new disease – but the exact threshold for declaring one is quite vague. In practice, the actions being taken would not change whether or not a pandemic is declared. Containment measures are not simply about eliminating the disease altogether. Delaying the onset of an outbreak or decreasing the peak is crucial in allowing health systems to cope with a sudden influx of patients.
Malaysia ex-PM Najib's trial halted over COVID-19 scare
Malaysia's former prime minister Najib Razak shouts slogans
Malaysia's former prime minister Najib Razak shouts slogans at the Kampung Baru Jamek Mosque in Kuala Lumpur on Dec 20, 2019. (Photo: AFP/Mohd Rasfan)
12 Mar 2020 05:52PM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 06:01PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

KUALA LUMPUR: Disgraced Malaysian ex-leader Najib Razak's corruption trial was halted Thursday (Mar 12) after his defence team were reportedly ordered to self-quarantine over fears about COVID-19.

Najib and his cronies are accused of looting billions of dollars from sovereign wealth fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB)and using it to finance a global spending spree.

Advertisement

Explore: Real-time interactive map of all the confirmed cases reported around the world
The allegations played a major part in Najib losing power in 2018, and he has since been arrested and is facing multiple trials over the scandal. He denies wrongdoing.

The legal process has moved slowly, however - and Najib's main trial was hit by yet another delay Thursday when his defence lawyers failed to turn up in court.

The Kuala Lumpur court heard that they had been ordered to go into quarantine, local media reported, citing one of their colleagues.

Advertisement

This was because the lead lawyer had recently come into contact with his sister-in-law, and one of her colleagues was then diagnosed with the virus, the New Straits Times newspaper reported.

READ: COVID-19: Malaysian religious affairs minister says no need to suspend Friday prayers
"The spread of the virus is faster than the speed of this trial," the judge reportedly joked, before ordering Najib's team to provide letters from a doctor confirming the claims.

There was much scepticism about the claims, however, with one netizen commenting "excuses, excuses, excuses" and another slamming them as a "delaying tactic".

The virus has infected more than 126,000 people worldwide and killed 4,600 since emerging in China in December, according to Johns Hopkins University.

Malaysia has reported 149 cases so far.
Singapore Wins Praise For Its COVID-19 Strategy. The U.S. Does Not
March 12, 20205:00 AM ET
Heard on Morning Edition
Jason Beaubien 2010
JASON BEAUBIEN

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
4-Minute Listen
Download
Hong Kong and Singapore were hit early with the coronavirus. But each now has fewer than 200 cases, while France, Germany and Spain, which were hit late, all have more than 10 times that number.

Three weeks ago, Italy had only three cases. Now it has more than 10,000.

These dramatic differences show that how governments respond to this virus matters, says Mike Ryan, the World Health Organization's head of emergencies.

"Hope is not a strategy," says Ryan, who is an epidemiologist. "We are still very much in the up cycle of this epidemic."



The veteran of numerous global health crises, from SARS to bird flu to Ebola, Ryan points out that incredibly aggressive measures by China, South Korea and Japan appear to be bringing outbreaks in those countries under control.

"There's clearly an indication that a systematic government-led approach using all tactics and all elements available seems to be able to turn this disease around," he says.

He has been pleading with governments around the world to prepare for the new coronavirus before it shows up at their door — or to spring into action when it does arrive.

That's what Hong Kong and Singapore did.

Both quickly set up systems to try to identify and treat every case in their territory. Hong Kong developed diagnostic tests and rapidly deployed them to labs at every major hospital in the city. At one point in February, Hong Kong had 12,000 people in quarantine. Singapore's prime minister called for calm and assured residents that all health care related to the disease would be free.

Sign Up For The Goats and Soda Newsletter
From A to Zika, get the latest global health and development news, sent weekly.

E-mail address
What's your email?
By subscribing, you agree to NPR's terms of use and privacy policy. NPR may share your name and email address with your NPR station. See Details. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Both Hong Kong and Singapore continue to find a few new cases each week, but they've avoided the explosive outbreaks that have occurred elsewhere.

Ashish Jha, who runs the Harvard Global Health Institute, says the response to the coronavirus has varied dramatically around the world. "Some countries have been very aggressive and have actually done quite a good job," he says. "Other countries have been quite lackadaisical and, I think, have suffered immensely from it. And I think there are lessons to be learned for all of us."

Italy and Iran both fall in the latter category. Jha says that before cases of COVID-19 were first diagnosed, Italy and Iran appeared to be in denial about the disease.

"I mean, you had the Iran deputy health minister coughing on national television talking about coronavirus," Jha says. "But really not taking it seriously."

That deputy health minister later tested positive for the virus.

As people started to get sick, neither Italy nor Iran did much testing. They were slow to stop mass gatherings. Eventually both countries were overwhelmed with cases.

So how has the United States' response been?

"Our response is much, much worse than almost any other country that's been affected," Jha says.

He uses the words "stunning," "fiasco" and "mind-blowing" to describe how bad it is.

"And I don't understand it," he says incredulously. "I still don't understand why we don't have extensive testing. Vietnam! Vietnam has tested more people than America has." (He's citing data from earlier this week. The U.S. has since started testing more widely, although exact figures still aren't available at a national level.)

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention started screening overseas travelers for coronavirus in mid-January. But the initial test kits developed by the CDC were flawed, and it took weeks to sort out the problems. It's only this week that wide-scale testing has started to become available in the United States.

Jha believes that the weekslong delay in deploying tests — at a time when numerous other tests were available around the world — has completely hampered the U.S. response to this crisis.

"Without testing, you have no idea how extensive the infection is. You can't isolate people. You can't do anything," he says. "And so then we're left with a completely different set of choices. We have to shut schools, events and everything down, because that's the only tool available to us until we get testing back up. It's been stunning to me how bad the federal response has been."

He says right now there are probably five to 10 times as many cases out in the community as have actually been detected. Until these individuals are found, they are likely to infect more people, he says, and the outbreak in the United States is just going to continue to grow.

As of Wednesday night ET, the U.S. had 1,281 cases, while Hong Kong, which started testing in January, had only 126.
Coronavirus: Singapore will have to tighten travel restrictions further temporarily, but can't completely shut itself from the world, says PM Lee

PUBLISHED1 HOUR AGOUPDATED2 SEC AGO
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Linette LaiPolitical Correspondent 
SINGAPORE - The Covid-19 outbreak will continue for some time - a year, and maybe longer - said Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong in his second national address on the situation on Thursday (March 12).

But if Singaporeans keep up their guard and take practical precautions to protect themselves and their families, the country will be able to keep its economy going and people will be able to carry on with their daily lives, he said in a video address telecast over his social media platforms.

PM Lee also emphasised that the disease outbreak response level will not be stepped up to red, the highest level. It is currently at orange.


"We are not locking down our city like the Chinese, South Koreans or Italians have done. What we are doing now is to plan ahead for some of these more stringent measures, try them out, and prepare Singaporeans for when we actually need to implement them," he said.

In his statement on the current situation - which he delivered in English, Chinese and Malay - PM Lee laid out the medical, economic and psychological impact of the coronavirus outbreak.

On the medical front, he noted that new cases continue to be seen in Singapore. Most have either travelled overseas or can be traced to imported cases. "Each time we have been able to isolate them, do contact tracing and quarantine the close contacts. So our numbers have not blown up. But neither have we been able to eradicate the virus despite our best efforts."


At the same time, new cases are emerging all over the world - in Europe, America and the Middle East - and the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared the situation a pandemic.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

This means that many countries will see full-blown outbreaks, with sustained community transmission, PM Lee said, adding that the WHO has attributed the virus' rapid spread to "alarming levels of inaction" by many countries.

And although Singapore has all along taken the outbreak with the "utmost seriousness", it expects more imported cases.

"We will have to tighten up further temporarily, though we cannot completely shut ourselves off from the world," he said.

First, there are baseline things that all Singaporeans must now do. These include practising good personal hygiene, adopting new social norms and discouraging large gatherings, and generally, maintaining some physical distance from one another.

Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
He noted that two of Singapore's large clusters happened in church groups, and that several Singaporeans who attended a big international religious gathering in Kuala Lumpur recently have caught the virus.

"The issue is of course not religion itself, but that the virus can spread quickly to many people in crowded settings, like religious gatherings and services," he said, adding: "I hope Singaporeans understand that during this period, we may need to shorten religious services, or reduce our attendance at such gatherings. Please work with your religious leaders to make these practical adjustments."

Second, Singapore must plan for a possible spike in Covid-19 cases.

With very large numbers, Singapore will not be able to hospitalise and isolate every case as it currently does. And 80 per cent of patients experience only mild symptoms, PM Lee said.

"So with larger numbers, the sensible thing will be to hospitalise only the more serious cases, and encourage those with mild symptoms to see their family GP and rest at home - isolate themselves. This way, we focus resources on the seriously ill, speed up our response time, and hopefully, minimise the number of fatalities."

Related Story
Deep implications for Singapore as Covid-19 is termed a pandemic
Related Story
The coronavirus is now a pandemic - what does this mean for us?
Related Story
Coronavirus is a 'controllable pandemic': WHO
Related Story
Coronavirus: How flattening the epidemic curve will buy time and keep outbreak in check
In the meantime, Singapore is freeing up intensive care unit and hospital beds, and facilities, to create additional capacity to meet any surge. "But rest assured, any Singaporean who needs urgent medical care, whether for Covid-19 or other illnesses, will be taken care of."

If there is a spike in cases, Singapore will also implement temporary additional social-distancing measures, such as suspending school, staggering work hours, or compulsory telecommuting, he said.

On the economic front, the Government is working on a second package of measures to help companies with their costs and cash-flow, to keep them afloat through the storm.

"We will help our workers keep their jobs, and retrain during their downtime, so that when things return to normal, our workers will be the first out of the gate, and immediately productive. And we will give those who are retrenched and unemployed, as well as their families, an extra helping hand to see through this difficult period."

The psychological aspect of this fight is also critical, PM Lee said.

Front-line staff - including healthcare workers, immigration officers, civil servants, public transport workers, taxi drivers, and cleaning staff - are working extremely hard to keep Singapore going.

More than 1,000 people wrote in to The Straits Times after the paper set up a tribute webpage on Sunday to curate messages of support for those involved.
Related Story
A tribute to S'pore's coronavirus fighters: Post a message and show your support
"Singaporeans are cheering them on," he said, adding that the Government, for its part, has been open and transparent with its plans.

"When we made direct appeals to Singaporeans, for example, only wear face masks when unwell, or not to worry about our supermarkets running out of food or household items, people accepted our reassurances, and behaviour changed. I am grateful that most Singaporeans are responding calmly and responsibly. Thank you for your trust and support."

He noted that Singapore's response has received international accolades, and underlying this is its people's social and psychological resilience.

"What makes Singapore different from other countries is that we have confidence in each other, we feel that we are all in this together, and we do not leave anyone behind. This is SG United, we are SG United."

He added: "In such a crisis, everyone has a part to play. I hope you will work with me and colleagues to keep our families safe, keep Singapore secure, and move forward together."

In his first national address, delivered on Feb 8, PM Lee had said that the outbreak was a test of Singapore's social cohesion and psychological resilience.

He also said the country may have to reconsider its strategy if the virus became widespread, as it would be futile to trace every contact and hospitals could be overwhelmed if every suspect case was hospitalised and isolated.

Related Story
Coronavirus cases in Singapore: What we know so far
He also encouraged Singaporeans to stay united and resolute, taking sensible precautions, helping one another, staying calm and carrying on with their lives.

Concerns over Indonesia's apparent lack of coordination in releasing information on first COVID-19 death
Indonesia COVID-19
A group of women attend an information session on the COVID-19 coronavirus in Banda Aceh on March 3, 2020. (Photo: AFP/Chaideer Mahyuddin) 
Rizki byline - smiling
By Kiki Siregar
12 Mar 2020 04:44PM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 04:50PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

JAKARTA: The circumstances surrounding the confirmation of Indonesia's first death linked to COVID-19 on Wednesday (Mar 11) has revealed what may be a lack of coordination among various agencies handling the outbreak.

When the death of a 53-year-old COVID-19 patient was announced by the central government in a press conference, it was only told to the reporters that she was Case 25 and a foreign national. No other details were provided. 

Advertisement
This has prompted the public to speculate and a few hours later, local health authorities in Bali announced that a suspected COVID-19 patient, a foreigner, has died in the resort island.

However, the local officials said they were not informed by the central government that the patient had tested positive for coronavirus, as all tests were conducted in Jakarta. 

They also claimed they initially had no idea that the said patient was Case 25, until they called up the health ministry to check.

Such confusion, said Mr Agus Pambagio, a public policy expert from think-tank PH & H Public Policy Interest Group, could be avoided if the central government is the only authority in-charge of announcing COVID-19 information, with sufficient details given. 

Advertisement

"If it’s done at the local level there may be mistakes, that’s why the information should be given by the central government," he said.

READ: COVID-19 - Concerns among some Indonesian hospitals over availability of medical equipment
On Wednesday, a spokesperson from the United Kingdom's Foreign and Commonwealth Office confirmed to CNA separately that the deceased was a British citizen. She was Case 25, and she was in Bali, he added.

The national government’s spokesperson for COVID-19 clarified later that doctors at the hospital, where the patient was treated, were aware of the situation. 

If the doctors did not inform the local health authorities, that is a separate matter, he said. 

Passengers wearing protective masks pass the entrance gate of Juanda train station following confir
Passengers wearing protective masks pass the entrance gate of Juanda train station following confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus disease of COVID-19 in Jakarta, Indonesia, March 3, 2020. REUTERS/Willy Kurniawan

Mr Pambagio said it is wrong for the central government to release limited amount of information, adding that the country has just only sprung into action in handling the COVID-19 pandemic. 

“We are late in tackling this. I have been saying this since January, appoint a national spokesperson because looking back at the Aceh tsunami, there was a head of task force.

“This is a global outbreak, there should have been one from the very beginning."

OTHER COUNTRIES MIGHT TURN AWAY INDONESIAN VISITORS: ANALYST

Following its first two COVID-19 cases last week, the Indonesian government has appointed a spokesperson to brief the press on the latest situation twice a day.

The health minister, when announcing the first two cases, had revealed their details such as their occupations and the places they visited before they received a positive diagnosis for COVID-19. 

As a result, media outlets rushed to dig more information about the patients, and members of the public started sharing their photos online. 

Subsequently, the authorities only reveal the patients' age and which clusters they belong to.

Other details such as their whereabouts before they tested positive for COVID-19, where they are hospitalised and their nationalities (for foreign patients) are withheld from the public, for fear that such information might be misused by the people. 

Women with protective masks walk on stairs in Jakarta
Women with protective masks walk on stairs, as Indonesia confirmed new cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19), in Jakarta, Indonesia, March 11, 2020. REUTERS/Ajeng Dinar Ulfiana

READ: Indonesians turn to traditional remedies to fend off COVID-19
Mr Pambagio said if the government is persistent in being non-transparent, other countries might turn away Indonesian visitors. 

“If they don’t (reveal relevant information) as soon as possible, then Indonesian passport holders may not be granted visas. Because people will think the information coming out of this country is unclear.

“If things are critical, the flow of information should come from one place. All information should be given to the head of the task force, and if it needs to be conveyed to the public, it has to be done well and accurately,” Mr Pambagio said.
Singapore stocks plunge amid global sell-off after COVID-19 pandemic declared
An SGX sign is pictured at Singapore Stock Exchange
FILE PHOTO: An SGX sign is pictured at Singapore Stock Exchange July 19, 2017. REUTERS/Edgar Su
12 Mar 2020 11:34AM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 05:44PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Singapore's stock market plunged more than 4 per cent on Thursday (Mar 12) after the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic and the United States announced a 30-day ban on travel from Europe over the coronavirus.

The benchmark Straits Times Index fell as much as 4.2 per cent to 2,666.05 during intra-day trading, Bloomberg data showed.

Advertisement

This is the lowest since March 2016, when it touched 2,654.98, according to data from investing.com.

The index closed down 3.7 per cent at 2,681.31, with losers outpacing winners at 449 to 99.

Among the top losers, Wilmar plunged 8.3 per cent, Keppel Corp fell 7.2 per cent and Mapletree Logistics Trust lost 6.9 per cent.

Year-to-date, the STI has fallen about 16.8 per cent.

Advertisement

"As an open and small economy, Singapore is very susceptible to external shocks and thus vulnerable to a global selloff," Ms Margaret Yang, market analyst at CMC Markets in Singapore, said in a note to CNA.

READ: COVID-19 outbreak 'a pandemic' - WHO chief
Asian markets were a sea of red at the open, with traders taking their lead from a global rout as the WHO declared the spread of the coronavirus was officially a pandemic.

But Trump's announcement of the 30-day ban, which excludes Britain, caused further selling, despite a series of measures intended to ease the financial pain of the outbreak, which has paralysed travel and hit businesses around the world.

Oil prices were also hammered after Trump's comments, with both main contracts falling around 6 per cent.

READ: US to suspend all travel from Europe for 30 days to fight COVID-19 outbreak
"At the crux of the issue is the fear of the prolonged, widespread coronavirus sustaining its hold on the market. Even though we do have substantial support coming through from governments and central banks alike, the dispersion of the virus so far continues to mark the risks of dragging the global economy into recession," Ms Pan Jingyi, market strategist at IG, said in a note.

Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index plunged 3.7 per cent to close at 24,309.07.

Tokyo ended down 4.4 per cent, while Sydney lost 7.4 per cent in the ASX 200's worst day since the 2008 financial crisis and Shanghai was off 1.5 per cent.

The losses followed another brutal session on the US markets, with wave after wave of bad news, including Hilton withdrawing its earnings forecast and Boeing saying it would suspend most hiring and overtime pay.

The coronavirus outbreak has left virtually no sector untouched, though travel and tourism have been particularly hard-hit as countries institute travel bans and quarantine requirements.

Globally, about 126,000 have been infected with COVID-19 and more than 4,600 have died, according to a Reuters tally.

The Dow Jones Industrial Index plunged around 1,465 points, or 5.9 per cent, to 23,553.22 on Wednesday, in a bruising session that left the index more than 20 per cent below its peak, making it a bear market.

On Thursday, Europe's main stock markets also dived more than 5 perent at the start of trading.

Shortly after the open, London's benchmark FTSE 100 index was down 5.3 per cent, Frankfurt's DAX 30 plunged 5.8 per cent and the Paris CAC 40 tumbled 5.1 per cent.
Olympics: Tokyo 2020 announces opening event despite mounting COVID-19 concerns
Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games mascot Miraitowa and Paralympic mascot Someity plushies are displayed for 
Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games mascot Miraitowa and Paralympic mascot Someity plushies are displayed for sale inside a souvenir shop in J-village compound, ahead of the upcoming Olympics torch relay in Nahara town, Fukushima prefecture, Japan, March 12, 2020. REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha
12 Mar 2020 10:50AM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 03:25PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

TOKYO: Tokyo 2020 organisers said on Thursday (Mar 12) that Japan's softball game against Australia on Jul 22 would be the first event on the schedule, the announcement coming as concerns mount about the potential impact on the Games from the COVID-19 outbreak.

The game will begin at 9am local time at the Fukushima Azuma Baseball Stadium with another two fixtures, Italy v United States and Mexico v Canada, later in the day.

Advertisement
It will mark the first day of action at the Games, which officially begin with the opening ceremony on Jul 24.

The schedule announcement comes amid fears that the coronavirus outbreak, labelled a pandemic by the WHO on Wednesday, could have a major impact on the Games.

READ: Tokyo Olympics organisers say no plans to postpone or cancel 2020 Games
READ: In Tokyo, a growing sense of angst over coronavirus-hit Games
Advertisement

The Tokyo city governor on Thursday said cancelling the Olympics is "unthinkable", although the classification of the coronavirus as a pandemic will likely have some impact on the Games.

"It can't be said that the announcement of a pandemic would have no impact ... But I think cancellation is unthinkable," Yuriko Koike told reporters.

Koike vowed to work with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and Tokyo 2020 organisers on what she described as a "global issue", promising to devote her "utmost efforts" to holding the Games.

GLOBAL SPORT CANCELLATIONS

But the coronavirus has already taken a huge toll on sport across the globe with a long list of competitions affected.

US basketball was the latest sport to be hit, as the NBA said it would suspend the season starting on Thursday after a preliminary test on a Utah Jazz player came back positive for COVID-19.

In Italy, the hardest-hit European country, all sporting events including Serie A football have been suspended until Apr 3.

READ: NBA to suspend season after Utah Jazz player tests positive for COVID-19
READ: Football - Juventus defender Rugani tests positive for coronavirus
Arsenal's game at Manchester City on Wednesday was the first Premier League football fixture to be called off, while Champions League matches have been played behind closed doors and Indian Wells, one of the biggest events of the tennis season, was cancelled.

A Tokyo 2020 organising committee member said late on Wednesday that any decision to delay the Olympics should be made before May but on Thursday Japanese government spokesman Yoshihide Suga said there was no change in planning for the Games.

Coronavirus has already had some impact on the Games, as the traditional flame-lighting ceremony in Olympia, Greece, is expected to be held without spectators after dozens tested positive for the virus nearby.

The torch is due to arrive in Japan on Mar 20 but the arrival ceremony has also been downscaled, with around 200 children originally scheduled to attend now expected to miss it.

Olympic qualifying tournaments in several different sports have also been cancelled, postponed or moved to different countries.

CALLS FOR PLAN B

Japan's ruling party heavyweight Shigeru Ishiba said Japan must brainstorm plans for dealing with cancelled or postponed the Games, even if that is unlikely. The outspoken critic of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is seen as a leading candidate to be the next prime minister.

The fate of the Tokyo Olympics was a decision best left to the IOC, he said, but declined to comment on what the best move might be.

FILE PHOTO: A man walks in front of the Olympic rings at the waterfront area at Odaiba Marine Park 
FILE PHOTO: FILE PICTURE: A man wearing a face mask, following an outbreak of the coronavirus, walks in front of giant Olympic rings at the waterfront area at Odaiba Marine Park in Tokyo, Japan, March 6, 2020. REUTERS/Stoyan Nenov/File Photo
Whatever the decision, Japan must be prepared, he said.

"Not thinking about worst-case scenarios won't eliminate the risk of them materialising," Ishiba told Reuters.

"The government must start thinking now about what to do" in case the Olympics Games is cancelled or postponed, he added.

Haruyuki Takahashi, an executive board member of the organising committee, told Japan's Asahi Shimbun daily on Wednesday it would be ideal to hold the Olympics as planned but "there has to be an alternative plan".

"The coronavirus has become a global problem. We can't just hold it (the Olympics) because Japan is OK," he said.

As of Wednesday, Japan had 620 cases and 15 deaths, excluding people on a cruise ship that was quarantined near Yokohama last month, according to the health ministry.

Experts say the tally may be deceptively low due to the limited number of tests in Japan compared with many other countries.

Takahashi said the summer two years from now "offers the best possibility" for a postponement, given the international sporting calendar, adding that "preparation must start now" if a delay is on the cards.

He insisted that it would be "impossible" to cancel the Games altogether, and said he was speaking out as "a warning bell" for the organising committee, adding that he would raise the issue at a board meeting later this month.
Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson hospitalised in Australia with COVID-19
tom hanks rita wilson
Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson stand before her newly unveiled star after she was honored on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in Hollywood,, California on Mar 29, 2019. (Photo: AFP/Mark RALSTON)
12 Mar 2020 09:42AM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 04:46PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

LOS ANGELES: Oscar-winning actor Tom Hanks and his wife, actress Rita Wilson, have both tested positive for COVID-19 in Australia, the US actor said Wednesday (Mar 11).

Hanks and Rita Wilson, both 63, are being monitored at the Gold Coast University Hospital where they are "in a stable condition", according to Queensland state health officials.

Advertisement
Hanks revealed the shock diagnoses in a message that informed fans they had felt tired and achy with slight fevers and wanted to get tested to "play things right."

Hanks is the first major Hollywood star to publicly state that he has the virus that has sickened more than 125,000 people worldwide and killed more than 4,600.

"To play things right, as is needed in the world right now, we were tested for the coronavirus, and were found to be positive," he wrote in a statement posted to social media.

"We'll keep the world posted and updated," he added, along with a photo of a surgical glove placed inside a biohazard trash bag.

Advertisement


Tom Hanks
✔
@tomhanks
View image on Twitter
835K
9:14 AM - Mar 12, 2020
Twitter Ads info and privacy
238K people are talking about this
The multi-Oscar-winner was on the Gold Coast for pre-production of an Elvis Presley biopic by Australian director Baz Luhrmann and Wilson had played gigs at the Sydney Opera House and in Brisbane.

Opera House staff told AFP they were helping authorities track "approximately 207 people" who "may have been in contact with the couple" at the concert on Saturday.

The famed building has received additional "on-site cleaning with hospital-grade disinfectant" a spokesperson said, adding that tours and performances would continue.

Production on Hank's Elvis film - in which he was set to play the legendary singer's longtime manager, Colonel Tom Parker - has been suspended and actors and crew are also being tested.

In a video message, the Hanks' son, Chet, said, "I just got off the phone with them, they both are fine, they're not even that sick."

"They're not worried about it, they're not tripping but they're going through the necessary health precautions obviously," he said.

"I don't think it's anything to be too worried about but I appreciate everyone's concerns and well wishes, but I think it's going to be alright."

READ: US to suspend all travel from Europe for 30 days to fight COVID-19 outbreak
ELVIS BIOPIC

Gold Coast Mayor Tom Tate said Hanks was "tested early this morning, very early, and once everyone was in the news was delivered by Baz and then everyone went home."

"The Elvis biopic filming has been closed down. I understand it will be 14 days quarantine and testing and ... our heart goes out to Tom and his wife," Tate said in a press conference.

"All the people who were on set have gone home and self-quarantined, which includes my daughter so I gave her a call ... Being a dad that was the first thing I got onto," Tate said.

"If the test comes back negative, they'll be back to work that's where they're sitting."

Warner Bros said it had "been made aware that a company member from our Elvis feature film... has tested positive for COVID-19.

"We are working closely with the appropriate Australian health agencies to identify and contact anyone who may have come in direct contact with the individual."

It is not known where the couple contracted the disease - there have so far been more than 140 coronavirus cases confirmed in Australia and three people have died.

Wilson - who is promoting her new album Halfway to Home - gave performances at a Brisbane hotel on Mar 5 and the Sydney Opera House on Mar 7. She also appeared on a popular Australian TV show whose hosts and crew are now in quarantine.

During the visit to Australia's largest city, the couple also visited Bondi Beach. It is unknown whether they had contracted the virus by that point.

Hanks won best actor Academy Awards for his role in 1994's Philadelphia in which he plays a man stricken with AIDS, and Forrest Gump the following year. Wilson has appeared in such films as Sleepless in Seattle and Runaway Bride.
More than 7,000 Stay-Home Notices issued for COVID-19; checks done through GPS, photos: ICA
A man holding a mask
A man holds a mask. (Photo: Gaya Chandramohan)
haziq
By Aqil Haziq Mahmud
@AqilHaziqCNA
12 Mar 2020 01:32PM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 01:40PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: The Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) has issued more than 7,000 Stay-Home Notices (SHN) as of 8am on Monday (Mar 9), with individuals required to prove their whereabouts through photos or via their phone GPS location function.

"Text messages are sent at various times a day to persons issued with the SHN," the authority told CNA on Wednesday evening.

Advertisement
"They are then required to update ICA of their location within an hour, through their phone’s GPS location service via a unique web link provided in the text message."

Officers will also make random phone calls and house visits, including to those who do not respond to the text messages or phone calls, ICA said.

Those who get the phone call must take photos of their surroundings to verify their whereabouts, it added.

READ: COVID-19: New Stay-Home Notice with stricter measures for Singapore residents, long-term pass holders returning from mainland China
Advertisement

The SHN was implemented on Feb 18 for Singapore residents, long-term pass holders, and foreign work pass holders returning from mainland China outside Hubei province. 

These individuals are required to stay at home at all times for 14 days as a precautionary measure to minimise the risk of COVID-19 transmission in Singapore, in the event they contracted the virus in China.

The SHN is stricter than the leave of absence, which allows individuals to leave their homes briefly for purposes like having meals or buying household supplies, but slightly more flexible than a Home Quarantine Order, which requires individuals to be separated from others within the same home.

The SHN was expanded to include the same group of travellers returning from South Korea, Iran and northern Italy – all places that have reported large numbers of COVID-19 cases.

READ: Man loses PR status, barred from re-entering Singapore after breaching Stay-Home Notice
On Feb 26, a 45-year-old permanent resident (PR) became the first person reported to have breached the SHN after returning from China. As a result, ICA revoked his PR status and will now bar him from re-entering the country.

On Tuesday, the Education Ministry announced that a Nanyang Technological University (NTU) international postgraduate student had breached his SHN and repeatedly provided false information regarding his travel movements.

NTU has removed him from the postgraduate course and terminated his student pass.

READ: NTU terminates foreign student from postgraduate course for breaching Stay Home Notice
ICA said it would not hesitate to take enforcement measures against those who do not comply with SHNs, including prosecuting them under Section 21A of the Infectious Diseases Act.

Under the Act, it is an offence for a person who knows, or has reason to suspect, that he is a case, carrier or contact of COVID-19 to "expose other persons to the risk of infection by his presence or conduct in any public place or any other place used in common by persons other than the members of his own family or household".

Anyone convicted of an offence under the Act can be fined up to S$10,000 and/or jailed up to six months.

ICA said other penalties include the revocation or shortening the validity of one's PR status, long-term visit pass, dependent's pass, student's pass, or work pass.

"If one’s child or ward is a full-time student attending a pre-school, school or other educational institutions in Singapore, the child or ward might be subjected to disciplinary action, including suspension or dismissal," it stated.

"For foreign students, we may also cancel the child or ward’s student’s pass or dependent's pass."
COVID-19 outbreak 'a pandemic': WHO chief
Police officers make checks on people at Milan&apos;s main train station
A police officer talks to people at Milan's main train station, following a government decree that has shut down large areas in the north of the country, to stem coronavirus contagion, Milan, Italy March 9, 2020. REUTERS/Daniele Mascolo
12 Mar 2020 12:51AM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 06:22AM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

GENEVA: The World Health Organization described the new coronavirus as a pandemic for the first time on Wednesday (Mar 11), adding that Italy and Iran were now on the frontline of the disease and other countries would soon join them.

"We are deeply concerned both by the alarming levels of spread and severity and by the alarming levels of inaction. We have therefore made the assessment that COVID-19 can be characterised as a pandemic," WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a news conference.

Advertisement

He urged the global community to redouble efforts to contain the outbreak, saying aggressive measures could still play a big role to curb it.

"This is the first pandemic caused by a coronavirus. We cannot say this loudly enough, or clearly enough, or often enough: all countries can still change the course of this pandemic. This is the first pandemic that can be controlled," he later tweeted.

While he acknowledged the characterisation did not change what WHO was doing or what countries needed to do, it sounded an alarm the organisation has not used so far as the virus spreads.


Advertisement

WHO officials have signalled for weeks that they may use the word "pandemic" as an descriptive term but have stressed that it does not carry legal significance. The WHO no longer has a category for declaring a pandemic, except for influenza. The novel coronavirus is not the flu.

The coronavirus, which emerged in China in December, has spread around the world, halting industry, bringing flights to a standstill, closing schools and forcing the postponement of sporting events and concerts.

The WHO declared a public health emergency of international concern, its "highest level of alarm", on Jan. 30 when there were fewer than 100 cases of COVID-19 outside China and eight cases of human-to-human transmission of the disease.

Now there are more than 118,000 cases in 114 countries and 4,291 people have died, Tedros said, with the numbers expected to climb.

In the past two weeks the number of cases outside China had risen 13-fold, and the number of countries affected had tripled, a sombre-looking Tedros said, displaying little of his normally upbeat persona.

ON THE FRONTLINE

Mike Ryan, head of the WHO's emergencies programme, said the situation in Iran was "very serious" and the agency would like to see more surveillance and more care for the sick.

"We need to move now. Italy and Iran are in the frontline now. They are suffering but I guarantee you other countries will be in that situation very soon," Ryan said.

READ: Iran announces 63 new virus deaths, taking total to 354
Ryan said that some countries were only testing the elderly or people who had travelled to China and urged them to update their monitoring and contact-tracing measures as well as do more to protect health workers exposed to the virus.

He said the experience with influenza led many people to the false conclusion that a pandemic was uncontrollable once it started.

READ China's new COVID-19 cases rise on infections from abroad
The experience of South Korea, Singapore, and China in combating the new virus showed this was not true, he said.

"We have observation that tells us that there is a strong element of controllability in this disease," he told the news conference.

"That doesn't mean we will completely stop it but what it does mean is there is a real chance to blunt the curve, there is a real chance to bend the curve and reduce the number of cases that our health system has to cope with and give the health system a chance to save more lives," he said.

Ryan said healthcare workers in Iran and Italy were under a lot of strain, citing nearly 900 people in intensive care in Italy. Confirmed cases across Italy rose to 12,462 on Wednesday, from a previous 10,149, with 827 having died.

He also pointed to shortages of protective gear, ventilators and oxygen in Iran, where the death toll has topped 350 people with around 9,000 infected.

"We've made clear that those supplies are very, very short and we are struggling to find other supplies externally," he said.
Government ramps up reskilling efforts for sectors hardest hit by COVID-19
marina square
Marina Square mall. (Photo: TODAY/Kenneth Cheng)
New Content Item
By Rachel Phua
12 Mar 2020 10:38AM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 10:40AM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Workforce Singapore (WSG) will open up more than 2,000 training places under its Adapt & Grow initiative to support five sectors hit hard by the COVID-19 outbreak.

The Adapt & Grow programme is designed to help Singaporeans amid the global economic uncertainties and structural changes to the labour market by placing them in new jobs either in a different company or within the same one. Employers who participate in the programme receive wage subsidies and training support.

Advertisement
There will be new place-and-train programmes for rank-and-file roles in retail and food services businesses, as well as a professional conversion programme (PCP) in digital operations for mid-career professionals, managers, executives and technicians (PMETs) in the furniture industry, the agency said on Thursday (Mar 12).

Similar programmes to assist those in the aviation and tourism sectors were announced earlier this year. 

Aside from helping industries directly affected by COVID-19, WSG is also launching a three-month long redeployment programme for rank-and-file supply chain and logistics coordinators to encourage workers to take advantage of the economic lull and prepare themselves for industry disruptions.

The programme was developed by WSG, the Singapore Economic Development Board, Enterprise Singapore and the Supply chain and Logistics Academy to reskill existing workers to take on enhanced or redesigned roles. 

Advertisement

READ: Enhanced training assistance for low-wage, self-employed people to improve career prospects
This redeployment programme comes alongside other PCPs already available for supply chain and logistics sector.

More than 2,600 workers are expected to benefit from WSG’s programmes and support measures for the supply chain and logistics sector as well as sectors directly affected by COVID-19.

Companies that sign up workers who are citizens aged 40 and above for the Adapt & Grow schemes will receive 90 per cent salary support from April, up from 70 per cent, WSG said. The maximum salary support duration for some of the programme will be extended to six months as well.

WSG’s support measures are part of the S$4 billion Stabilisation and Support Package that was announced in Budget 2020.

Manpower Minister Josephine Teo said these support measures are aimed at preventing large-scale job losses amid the economic uncertainty. 

“During such times when business is not exactly booming, what can you do with the time that the workers have? Probably a better use of their time is to put into training,” she said during a visit to ST Logistics ahead of the announcements on Tuesday.  

She acknowledged that it is tough for employers to be thinking about training their employees when they have cost and cash flow pressures to grapple with.

“(But) it is the smarter thing to do because when the recovery comes you want to be able to catch it quite quickly,” she said. 
Singapore reports 6 new COVID-19 cases; 3 linked to SAFRA Jurong cluster
SAFRA Jurong Wide Shot High Angle
SAFRA branch in Jurong (Photo: Try Sutrisno Foo)
Afifah Darke - byline
By Afifah Darke
10 Mar 2020 09:51PM
(Updated: 11 Mar 2020 12:21AM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Six new cases of COVID-19 were confirmed in Singapore on Tuesday (Mar 10), including three linked to the SAFRA Jurong cluster.

The cluster, which involved a private dinner function held at the Joy Garden restaurant in SAFRA Jurong on Feb 15, now has a total of 39 cases, said the Ministry of Health (MOH).

Advertisement
Two of the new cases are linked to a previous case, while one - a Singaporean who had been in France - is currently unlinked. 

The latest infections bring Singapore's total number of COVID-19 cases to 166.

READ: Singapore to shift approach, 'double down' on COVID-19 measures within country: Lawrence Wong
To date, 93 cases have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospital. 

Advertisement

Of the 73 confirmed cases who are still in hospital, most are stable or improving, MOH said. Twelve are in critical condition in the intensive care unit.

Explore our interactive: All the COVID-19 cases in Singapore and the clusters and links between them

Singapore COVID-19 cases Mar 10, 2020
NEW CASES 

CASE 161

Case 161 is a 73-year-old Singaporean man who has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. 

He is currently warded in an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID). He is a family member of Case 107, and is linked to the SAFRA Jurong cluster.

He reported onset of symptoms on Feb 27. As he had been identified as a contact of Case 107, he was referred by MOH to NCID on Mar 1 and tested positive on Mar 9 afternoon. 

He lives at Bishan Street 13.

CASE 162

Case 162 is a 28-year-old Singaporean man who had been in Indonesia from Feb 29 to Mar 2. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. 

He is linked to Case 142, a 26-year-old Singaporean man who is a family member of two patients from the SAFRA Jurong cluster.

He reported onset of symptoms on Mar 7. As he had been identified as a contact of Case 142, he was referred by MOH to NCID on Mar 9. Test results confirmed COVID-19 infection that afternoon. 

Prior to hospital admission, he had visited a shop at 26 Jalan Membina. He lives at Kim Tian Road.

CASE 163 

Case 163 is a 27-year-old Singaporean woman who has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. She is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. She is also linked to Case 142.

She reported onset of symptoms on Mar 8. As she had been identified as a contact of Case 142, she was referred by MOH to NCID on Mar 9 and tested positive that afternoon.

Prior to hospital admission, she had visited Funan Mall and PUB Recreation Club (48 Woodleigh Park). She lives at Redhill Road.

CASE 164

Case 164 is a 57-year-old woman who is a permanent resident. She has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. 

She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on Mar 10 morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID.

She is a contact of Case 134, and is linked to the cluster involving the private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong.

CASE 165

Case 165 is a 30-year-old Singaporean man who had been in France from Feb 15 to Mar 7. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on Mar 10 morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID.

CASE 166 

Case 166 is a 55-year-old Singaporean woman who has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions.

She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on Mar 10 morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at Ng Teng Fong General Hospital (NTFGH).

She is a contact of Case 134, and is linked to the cluster involving the private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong.

UPDATES ON PREVIOUS CASES

MOH also gave updated on cases 154 to 160, which were all announced on Monday. 

CASE 154

Case 154 is an imported case involving a 52-year-old British man who arrived in Singapore on Mar 6. 

He had been in Switzerland from Feb 26 to Feb 28  and in the UK from Feb 29 to Mar 5. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID.

He reported onset of symptoms on Mar 8 and presented at Raffles Hospital on the same day and was referred to NCID. 

Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on Mar 9 morning. Prior to hospitalisation, he mostly stayed at his room at Raffles Hotel. 

CASE 155
Case 155 is a 47-year-old Malaysian woman who is a Singapore Work Pass holder, and has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. 

She is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. She is a contact of Case 128, and is linked to the cluster involving the private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong. 

She reported onset of symptoms on Mar 4 and had sought treatment at a general practitioner (GP) clinic on the same day. 

As she had been identified as a close contact of Case 128, she was referred by MOH to NCID on Mar 8. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection the next morning. 

Prior to hospital admission, she mostly stayed at home at Boon Lay Place.

CASE 156 

Case 156 is a 50-year-old woman who is a Singapore permanent resident. She has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. 

She is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID and is linked to the cluster involving the private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong.

She reported onset of symptoms on Mar 7 and was taken to NCID by ambulance the next day.  

Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on Mar 9 morning. Prior to hospital admission, she mostly stayed at her home at Jurong West Street 74.

CASE 157 

Case 157 is a 54-year-old woman who is a permanent resident, and has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. 

She is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. She is a contact of Case 137, and is linked to the cluster involving the private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong.

She reported onset of symptoms on Mar 8. 

As she had been identified as a close contact of Case 137, she was referred by MOH to NCID on March. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on Mar 9 morning. 

Prior to hospital admission, she mostly stayed at her home at Jurong West Street 81.

CASE 158 

Case 158 is a 53-year-old Singaporean woman who has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. 

She is currently warded in an isolation room at NTFGH. She is a family member of Case 159, and is linked to the SAFRA Jurong cluster.

She reported onset of symptoms on Mar 5. 

She went to NTFGH on Mar 8, and subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on Mar 9 morning. Prior to hospital admission, she had sought treatment at Farrer Park Hospital for an unrelated condition. She lives at Pending Road.

CASE 159 

Case 159 is a 59-year-old Singaporean man who has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. 

He is currently warded in an isolation room at NTFGH. He is a family member of Case 158, and is linked to the cluster involving the private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong.

He reported onset of symptoms on Mar 5. 

He went to NTFGH on Mar 8, and subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection the next morning. 

Prior to hospital admission, he had gone to Farrer Park Hospital with Case 158 for an unrelated matter. He lives at Pending Road.

CASE 160  

Case 160 is a five-year-old Singaporean boy who has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. 

He is currently warded in an isolation room at KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital (KKH). He is a family member of Case 145, and is linked to the SAFRA Jurong cluster.

He reported onset of symptoms on Mar 7. As he had been identified as a contact of Case 145, he was referred by MOH to KKH on Mar 8. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 on Mar 9 morning. 

The boy, who lives on Teck Whye Lane, is a student at The Orange Tree Preschool @ Choa Chu Kang but had not gone to his preschool since onset of symptoms.

MOST COVID-19 CASES DUE TO "SOCIALLY IRRESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR"

Health Minister Gan Kim Yong earlier on Tuesday said that many locally transmitted COVID-19 cases in Singapore "were the result of the socially irresponsible actions of a few individuals" who continued to attend events and activities despite being unwell. 

About 35 out of the 160 confirmed cases in Singapore so far did not minimise social contact although they had already developed fever or respiratory symptoms, or had not consulted a doctor early when unwell.

More than a fifth (22 per cent) continued to work or carried on with their daily routine despite being sick, said Mr Gan.

The People’s Association also announced that it will suspend courses, organised activities and interest group activities in community clubs and residents’ committee centres that seniors regularly participate in. 

This will involve about 2,600 classes and 11,000 interest group activities, with about 290,000 non-unique participants. 

All senior-centric activities conducted by government agencies will also be suspended for 14 days from Mar 11 to Mar 24. 

These include activities held at community clubs, residents' committees, senior activity centres, active aging hubs, CREST centres, the Health Promotion Board and ActiveSG sport centres.

COSTA FORTUNA CRUISE SHIP DOCKS IN SINGAPORE 

A cruise liner that was turned away from ports in Malaysia and Thailand due to COVID-19 concerns docked in Singapore on Tuesday morning. 

The Costa Fortuna berthed at the Marina Bay Cruise Centre as part of a scheduled call, after the ship was barred from stopping in Penang and Phuket.

According to MOH, the Singapore Tourism Board and Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore, the ship declared that none of its passengers and crew on board were "febrile or have exhibited other symptoms of respiratory illness". 

Upon disembarkation, passengers and crew were also further subjected to thermal and visual screenings by MOH-licensed healthcare providers, said the authorities in a joint statement. 

Passengers were then bussed directly to the airport for their onward flights or to their hotels. Almost all foreign passengers were said to depart Singapore within the next two days.
Nurse with COVID-19 did not attend to coronavirus patients in last 14 days: Ng Teng Fong General Hospital
Ng Teng Fong General Hospital
File photo of Ng Teng Fong General Hospital. 
Afifah Darke - byline
By Afifah Darke
12 Mar 2020 12:22AM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 12:30AM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: A nurse infected with COVID-19 had complied with infection control measures while she was at work, said Ng Teng Fong General Hospital (NTFGH) on Wednesday (Mar 11). 

She also did not attend to any confirmed COVID-19 patients in the last 14 days in the course of her clinical duties, said NTFGH's CEO Foo Hee Jug in the statement. 

Advertisement
Several patients with the coronavirus are being treated at the hospital.

READ: 12 new COVID-19 cases in Singapore including RSAF servicemen who were in France on official duty
The 35-year-old Filipino nurse, who works at the emergency department, was tested positive for the coronavirus on Tuesday. 

She has been identified as Case 167 by the Ministry of Health, which has said she is linked to an imported case - Case 178, who is her husband.

Advertisement

She had travelled to the Philippines with her husband from Feb 11 to Feb 17, and returned to work on Feb 18. Her spouse took another trip to Philippines by himself from Feb 23 to Mar 2. 

MOH said on Wednesday that he had visited a relative with pneumonia in the Philippines.

At work, the nurse was well and complied with daily temperature-taking and monitoring of health, said Mr Foo.

READ: Two RSAF regulars on home quarantine after four others diagnosed with COVID-19 
"However, she developed a cough on Mar 8 and sought prompt medical attention at our staff clinic the next morning. 

"She stayed at home until her swab result was confirmed on Mar 10, and was transported back to our hospital," he added. 

The nurse is currently being cared for in an isolation room. Her husband, who was admitted on Tuesday and tested positive on Wednesday, is also in an isolation room.

READ: Singapore to shift approach, 'double down' on COVID-19 measures within country: Lawrence Wong
"We have since taken immediate measures, including reaching out to our emergency department colleagues and will be monitoring the team closely in the days ahead," said Mr Foo. 

The hospital has disinfected all the common staff areas in the emergency department such as the changing rooms, toilets, pantry, rest spaces, and lifts. 

"Contact tracing is also underway," said Mr Foo. 

"We will continue with daily checks and audits on infection control practices and PPE compliance, and will remind all staff to adhere to measures to safeguard patients and fellow colleagues," he added. 
Singapore to shift approach, 'double down' on COVID-19 measures within country: Lawrence Wong
Lawrence Wong speaks at a press conference on Mar 10, 2020 (1)
Minister for National Development Lawrence Wong speaks at a press conference on Mar 10, 2020. (Photo: Gaya Chandramohan) 
New Content Item
By Jalelah Abu Baker
@JalelahCNA
10 Mar 2020 11:52PM
(Updated: 11 Mar 2020 11:17AM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Singapore has to shift its approach towards containing COVID-19 within the country, as the virus spreads worldwide and border controls become less relevant and effective in the future, Minister for National Development Lawrence Wong said on Tuesday (Mar 10).

"As the virus spreads to countries everywhere, country-specific border control measures will become less relevant and effective because we are unable to shut Singapore from the world. We have to now shift our approach," said Mr Wong.

Advertisement
The authorities will have to double down on measures within Singapore, even as some basic surveillance at the borders continue, said the minister, who is the co-chair of a multi-ministry task force set up to handle the coronavirus.


“We will look at the whole range of social distancing measures,” he said at a press conference held at the National Press Centre.

The Ministry of Health announced on Tuesday that senior-centric activities by government agencies will be suspended for two weeks. Over time, the Government will have to ramp up and implement more social distancing measures, Mr Wong said.

Advertisement

READ: COVID-19: People's Association to suspend courses and activities for seniors
“We will look at a fuller range of social distancing measures we can put in place including for public events, community activities, school closures, workplace social distancing - including things like staggered hours, telecommuting - as well as religious services too. We will cover a broad spectrum and we will see what we should put in place,” Mr Wong said.

Singapore already has other social distancing measures like isolating patients, putting close contacts on quarantine and issuing Stay-Home Notices, he added.

READ: Many local COVID-19 cases due to 'socially irresponsible' behaviour of a few: Health Minister
However, the authorities are “very mindful” that these measures can disrupt the lives of Singaporeans.

“If we were to do all of them at one time, we will literally have to shut down our city and everything will grind to a halt,” he said.

REVIEWING ADVISORY ON LARGE-SCALE EVENTS

An advisory on large-scale gatherings has set the threshold for attendees in the thousands, but if this was adjusted to 500, it would affect religious services and weddings, he said.

Responding to a question on whether the National Day Parade (NDP) on Aug 9 will be affected, Mr Wong said: “For large-scale events, we are reviewing all the measures.” 

He added that the authorities are looking at whether they should be tightened.

“If so, then it will have downstream implications on all the events ... whether it is NDP or any other thing that is going to happen through the coming months,” he said.

When asked if the upcoming March school holidays will be affected, Mr Wong said there are no plans to extend the school holidays but he did not rule out school closures in the future.

“If necessary, we will put them in place, and we will provide lead time for parents so that they can work out their own arrangements for caregiving of their children,” he said.

"If there are social distancing measures we put in place that will impact Singaporeans, we will provide lead time. So certainly, school closures is one thing that impacts many people. We will have to provide lead time. We can’t just do it overnight.”


FATIGUE IF MEASURES START TOO EARLY

He cautioned that if some of the measures start too early, people may become fatigued and the measures may not be sustainable or effective.

“In that context, it is useful to think of this broad sweep of social distancing measures as something we can apply from time to time, as circuit breakers throughout the entire epidemic cycle,” he said.

By doing so, Singapore puts in "brakes" to try and stop, or slow down the transmission chain, and flatten the epidemic curve, he said.

“That should be our thinking around social distancing, and it’s something we are actively studying. We are putting in something today, and there will be more measures that we will continue to consider over the coming days and weeks,” he said.

He added that it is “critical” to implement the right measures at the right time, and this will be done based on the data, evidence and expert advice. Some will be temporary while others will be permanent, he said.
Operations at climbing gyms Boulder+, Climb Central affected over COVID-19 link
boulder plus
Climbing walls at Boulder+. (Photo: Boulder+/Facebook)
Ainslee Asokan - byline
By Ainslee Asokan
11 Mar 2020 11:27AM
(Updated: 11 Mar 2020 11:53AM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Operations at two climbing gyms in Singapore have been affected after both businesses said a COVID-19 case visited its premises.  

Boulder+ and Climb Central announced on their social media pages that they would be taking several measures to deal with the development, while urging customers to take precaution.

It is unclear if the cases referred to in their announcements is the same person or are linked. 

Advertisement
Climb Central said on its Facebook page on Tuesday (Mar 10) night that a climber who had visited its Funan premises on Sunday was confirmed to have contracted the novel coronavirus.

Several Climb Central outlets will be closed between Mar 11 and Mar 13 for cleaning and disinfecting between 8am and 2pm. 

The Funan Mall outlet will be shut on Mar 11; the Sports Hub facility will be closed on Mar 12; and the Novena branch will be closed on Mar 13.

Climb Central added that contact tracing by the Ministry of Health (MOH) was under way.

Advertisement

“Climbers who were in the facility from 9am to 4pm might be contacted. We ask that you cooperate fully with them ... We will continue to work together with MOH on this,” it said.

There was no information provided on whether the climber was at the bouldering walls or the rope-based walls.




BOULDER+ SUSPENDS OPERATIONS

Boulder+ issued two statements on Facebook – one on Sunday notifying climbers of a COVID-19 case and an update on Tuesday saying that there had been two other cases linked to the climber.

The earlier statement on Sunday said the affected climber had visited its gym at Aperia Mall in Kallang last Thursday evening. 

It said climbers who had been in the vicinity at the time will be contacted by MOH.

In the second statement, Boulder+ asked those affected to adhere to MOH’s mandate to be quarantined. It also urged those who had not been called up to take precautionary measures.

“If you stayed in the gym past 7pm and weren't called, you should stay home, don’t gym hop and avoid crowded places," it said.

"To take extra precautions in this time and to contain the virus the best that we can, we will be pausing operations for the time being."

CNA has contacted Climb Central and Boulder+ for more information. 




Yong Thai Hang medical shop and Grand Hyatt Covid-19 clusters no longer active
Both the Yong Thai Hang health products shop and Grand Hyatt Singapore clusters have not been linked to new Covid-19 cases in more than 28 days.
Both the Yong Thai Hang health products shop and Grand Hyatt Singapore clusters have not been linked to new Covid-19 cases in more than 28 days.ST PHOTOS: KEVIN LIM, ONG WEE JIN
PUBLISHEDMAR 11, 2020, 7:29 PM SGT
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Melissa Heng 
SINGAPORE - Two of Singapore's earliest detected coronavirus clusters have officially been closed and are no longer considered active, the Ministry of Health (MOH) said.

MOH director of medical services Kenneth Mak said on Tuesday (March 10) that both the Yong Thai Hang health products shop and Grand Hyatt Singapore clusters have not been linked to new Covid-19 cases in more than 28 days.

A check by The Straits Times found that all 12 cases linked to the two clusters have recovered and been discharged from hospital.


Both locations had gone through two periods of incubation, each lasting 14 days.

Yong Thai Hang, a medical shop in Cavan Road, was the first local cluster to be discovered in Singapore. The first case linked to the store was Case 19 - a 28-year-old female sales staff member at the store, who was confirmed to have the virus on Feb 3.

Nine cases in total, including a six-month-old baby boy whose mother is Case 19, were linked to the shop.


The Grand Hyatt cluster had three cases in total, including a 27-year-old Singaporean man who was the first local case from the cluster. He was confirmed to have the virus on Feb 6.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

The other two cases were a 51-year-old Singaporean man and a 38-year-old female permanent resident.

All three local cases had attended a business conference organised by British company Servomex from Jan 20 to 22 at the hotel, from which four overseas cases also emerged.

Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Related Story
Coronavirus: Music teacher who organised CNY function at Safra Jurong 'blames herself'
Related Story
Coronavirus: 58-year-old hairdresser attended to about 10 customers while ill
As of Wednesday morning, Singapore has had a total of 166 cases of the coronavirus, of which 93 have fully recovered and been discharged from hospital. Twelve are in critical condition and in intensive care.

There are now four active clusters of locally transmitted cases here. The largest involves a Chinese New Year dinner celebration at the Joy Garden Restaurant at Safra Jurong on Feb 15. The cluster is linked to 39 cases.

The other clusters are from Wizlearn Technologies and a Seletar Aerospace Heights construction site. The fourth involves the clusters at Grace Assembly of God and the Life Church and Missions Singapore, which are now considered one cluster after the two were found to be linked.

Although Yong Thai Hang and Grand Hyatt are no longer considered active clusters, both locations have not yet fully recovered from the effects of the outbreak.

When The Straits Times visited Grand Hyatt Singapore on Wednesday afternoon, the hotel lobby was almost devoid of guests although there were four or five employees at the check-in counter.

Related Story
Officers' investigative skills helped identify missing link between two church Covid-19 clusters
Related Story
How Singapore developed a test for Covid-19 antibodies that linked three infection clusters
Related Story
Coronavirus cases in Singapore: What we know so far
Asked about the hotel no longer being deemed an active cluster, Grand Hyatt Singapore hotel manager Parveen Kumar said: "We are certainly very delighted our implementation of various precautionary measures has led us to this positive outcome, and we will continue to remain vigilant and steadfast in following the guidelines recommended by international and local authorities."

Health products store Yong Thai Hang was closed when The Straits Times visited the store on Wednesday and could not be reached for comment.
Covid-19 likely to linger for a long time, say experts

Senior health correspondent Salma Khalik speaks to Singapore’s top Covid-19 experts on what lies ahead for the situation in Singapore.
PUBLISHEDMAR 10, 2020, 5:00 AM SGT
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Hopes of quick end to outbreak dashed as number of cases worldwide grows
Audrey Tan Science Correspondent and Rei Kurohi 
The number of people diagnosed with Covid-19 is growing around the world and, as the epicentre of the outbreak shifts away from China, it is unlikely that the disease will taper off the way that Sars did, experts said yesterday.

"We have to be mentally prepared that it is going to be here for months, if not even as a new normal - it is always going to be there with us," said Associate Professor Kenneth Mak, director of medical services at the Ministry of Health (MOH).

Prof Mak was one of four experts who spoke to The Straits Times' senior health correspondent Salma Khalik and also answered questions sent in by readers yesterday in an hour-long discussion which was broadcast live on the newspaper's social media channels.


The other three experts on the panel were Associate Professor Hsu Li Yang, infectious diseases programme leader at the National University of Singapore's Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health; Professor Leo Yee Sin, executive director of the National Centre for Infectious Diseases; and Professor Tikki Pangestu, a visiting professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and former director of the World Health Organisation's (WHO) research policy and cooperation department.

"The virus is here to stay at least until the end of the year," said Prof Hsu, adding that with the growing number of cases around the world, hopes that the outbreak will be over by next month or May will be dashed. "I think what is increasingly clear is that the epicentre of the epidemic - which is a pandemic in all but name - has spread away from China and has moved to other parts of the world," he said, pointing to the spread of cases from Iran to the Middle East, and from Italy to other parts of Europe.

Prof Pangestu pointed to three possible scenarios in the world's battle to control the outbreak.


One, more countries will have outbreaks, including severe cases, and it will continue to be an emergency.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

Two, the virus might "disappear completely", similar to how Sars did, said Prof Pangestu, referring to the 2003 outbreak of the severe acute respiratory syndrome that claimed nearly 800 lives globally.

The third is that the virus becomes endemic, and mankind might have to live with its continued existence, like other viruses such as H1N1 or swine flu.

Prof Pangestu said: "The third scenario is what the WHO is thinking of. It is going to become part of our daily existence."

The panellists
Associate Professor Kenneth Mak 

Director of medical services, Ministry of Health

Professor Leo Yee Sin 

Executive director, National Centre for Infectious Diseases

Professor Tikki Pangestu 

Visiting professor, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, and former director of the World Health Organisation's Research Policy and Cooperation department

Associate Professor Hsu Li Yang 

Infectious diseases programme leader, NUS Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health

Moderator: Salma Khalik 

Senior Health Correspondent, The Straits Times

COVID-19 DIFFERS FROM SARS

This makes containment... a very difficult task. So, I think those are the characteristics of this virus that we have to bear in mind (as we look into) the trajectory of the future epidemic.

PROFESSOR LEO YEE SIN, executive director of the National Centre for Infectious Diseases. Prof Leo said the way the virus is "secreted" varies between patients with Sars and those with Covid-19, with patients diagnosed with the latter secreting the virus earlier.

LIVING WITH THE VIRUS

The third scenario is what the WHO is thinking of. It is going to become part of our daily existence.

PROFESSOR TIKKI PANGESTU, a visiting professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, on the virus becoming endemic and mankind possibly having to live with its continued existence like other viruses such as H1N1 or swine flu.

Prof Leo said scenario two - that the virus can be "pushed back" - is unlikely to happen as the disease patterns are different.

She noted that Sars and Covid-19 spread differently, with patients with Covid-19 being able to spread the disease earlier.

This made containment a difficult task, she said. The different characteristics of the virus have to be considered in charting the trajectory of the future epidemic.

The Health Ministry's Prof Mak stressed the importance of continued vigilance as well as personal hygiene, noting that there might be a need to change the way patients are managed if the number of cases continues to grow to free up hospital resources to treat other patients.

He said: "It may well be that when there are many cases in the community, we may have to look whether some patients with very mild disease might be safely managed in the community with adequate measures to isolate them and make sure they are safe and not spreading their illness to other people."

More job training support for four sectors hit hardest by Covid-19
The support measures by WSG are focused on the reskilling and redeploying of workers, said Manpower Minister Josephine Teo.
The support measures by WSG are focused on the reskilling and redeploying of workers, said Manpower Minister Josephine Teo.ST PHOTO: MARK CHEONG
PUBLISHED10 HOURS AGOUPDATED6 HOURS AGO
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Shivraj Rajendran 
SINGAPORE - Four sectors badly affected by the coronavirus outbreak will get more support in terms of skills training and redeployment for their workers.

Workforce Singapore (WSG) is beefing up its reskilling programmes for workers in the tourism, aviation, retail and food services sectors, with enhancements ranging from extending the salary support period to making them available to more employees. 

Manpower Minister Josephine Teo said reskilling efforts are critical during an economic lull because "to employers, it makes very little sense to keep their workers unless there is something useful for workers to do".


That is why the support measures by WSG are focused on the reskilling and redeploying of workers, she said on Tuesday during a visit to ST Logistics in Tuas.

The latest enhancements are targeted at WSG’s Place-and-Train programmes, which are meant to encourage employers to reskill their rank-and-file workers to take on new job roles. 

Previously, WSG provided employers with salary support of up to 70 per cent, capped at $2,000 monthly per worker, for up to three months.


Salary support will now be extended to up to six months. In addition, for citizens above the age of 40 or who have been unemployed for six months or more, salary support will be raised to up to 90 per cent, capped at $3,000 a month per employee.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

The changes apply to the existing Place-and-Train programmes for the hotel and retail industries, as well as to a similar programme for air transport coordinators that was announced on March 2. 

A new Place-and-Train programme will also be rolled out for the food services industry, with the same enhanced terms, said WSG.

The enhancements take immediate effect, except for the Place-and-Train  programme involving air transport coordinators, which kicks in on April 1. 

WSG will also increase the capacity for the Place-and-Train programmes for the hotel industry and for digital marketing.

Related Story
Logistics and supply chain workers can tap new retraining programme for better job prospects
Related Story
Singapore Budget 2020: $4b to help businesses hit by coronavirus outbreak; sectors like tourism, aviation to get tax rebates
Related Story
Singapore Budget 2020: Aviation sector to get $112m package to tide over coronavirus outbreak; Changi Airport to get property tax rebate
Related Story
Road map to boost furniture industry unveiled at opening of Singapore Design Week
It also announced a new Professional Conversion Programme for the furniture industry that is geared towards helping mid-career professionals, managers executives and technicians take up digital roles in the sector. 

The six-month programme, which comprises on-the-job and classroom training, will equip participants with skills relevant to job roles in areas such as e-commerce campaign management, social media marketing and data analytics. 

Participating companies will get enhanced salary support of up to 90 per cent, capped at $6,000 a month for each employee. WSG will also provide funding for courses attended by participants. As furniture businesses are a subset of the retail industry, it is also considered to be affected by Covid-19.

All coronavirus-related support measures by WSG will be funded by the $4 billion Stabilisation and Support Package announced during Budget 2020.

Said Mr Tan Choon Sian, chief executive of WSG: "By helping empoyers defray a bulk of the costs for training with salary support, workers in participating companies can look forward to being reskilled into enhanced job roles to better support businesses for economic recovery."

WSG expects more than 2,000 workers to benefit from its programmes and support measures for sectors directly affected by Covid-19.
Covid-19: Italian cruise ship will dock in S'pore as scheduled; passengers to undergo health checks before disembarking
According to ship trackers, the Costa Fortuna has been making steady progress in the direction of Singapore since March 8, 2020.
According to ship trackers, the Costa Fortuna has been making steady progress in the direction of Singapore since March 8, 2020.PHOTO: COSTA CRUISES
PUBLISHEDMAR 9, 2020, 12:40 PM SGTUPDATEDMAR 9, 2020, 11:59 PM
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Toh Ting Wei 
SINGAPORE - An Italian cruise ship will dock in Singapore as scheduled on Tuesday (March 10), the authorities said, confirming a Straits Times report.

In a joint statement on Monday, the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore (MPA) and Singapore Tourism Board (STB) said: "The doctor on board the cruise ship will check on passengers and crew in order to ensure that they are healthy prior to disembarkation. All passengers entering Singapore are required to undergo temperature screening as a precautionary measure.

"Additionally, passengers entering Singapore and exhibiting fever and/or other symptoms of respiratory illness but who do not meet the Ministry of Health’s clinical definition may be required to undergo a Covid-19 swab test," the agencies added.


Passengers who are identified for Covid-19 swab testing but refuse to do so will not be allowed entry into Singapore. 

The MPA and STB said that the ship has declared on its Maritime Declaration of Health that none of its passengers currently on board are having a fever or other symptoms of respiratory illness.

The ship is returning to Singapore after being rejected by Thailand and Malaysia over Covid-19 fears.  


The Costa Fortuna, on a 14-day regional voyage, first departed from Marina Bay Cruise Centre about two weeks ago. All of its passengers had embarked from Singapore and completed pre-embarkation checks based on prevailing policies for travel history and temperature screening as required by the cruise line and the terminal operator prior to boarding. The ship called at Singapore and departed again last Tuesday in line with its itinerary.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

According to ship trackers, it had been making steady progress in the direction of Singapore since Sunday.

By 7am on Monday, it was in the waters near Tuas but sailing in international waters.

According to the ship's itinerary, it had initially travelled eastwards of Singapore, towards Ko Samui and Laem Chabang in Thailand, before heading to Sihanoukville in Cambodia.

It returned to Singapore again last Tuesday, before sailing westwards and reaching Langkawi in Malaysia last Thursday. Following that, it was scheduled to stop at Phuket, Penang and Kelang, but was refused entry by both Thailand and Malaysia.

Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Related Story
Coronavirus: Costa Fortuna ship passengers with travel history to northern Italy and symptoms to be taken to hospital
Related Story
Interactive: How coronavirus is spreading across the world
Related Story
Coronavirus: Malaysia bans entry for all cruise ships after Costa Fortuna cruise vessel turned away
The Costa Fortuna is carrying about 60 Italians on board, according to Malaysian officials.

The ship was first turned away from the popular Thai holiday island of Phuket last Friday, despite there being no suspected virus cases aboard, according to its operator.

Thai authorities had imposed restrictions "on Italians that have transited in Italy in the last 14 days", Costa Cruises said on Twitter.

Last Saturday, the vessel tried to dock in Penang but was also refused entry. It then headed to Singapore, local politician Phee Boon Poh told AFP.

Malaysia has issued a blanket ban on all cruise ships coming into the country due to the increasing Covid-19 cases. The immediate ban took effect following instructions from the Health and Transport ministries.

According to its operator, the Costa Fortuna has 1,358 cabins in total.

Singapore is listed among the ship's home ports, which refers to a port where the vessel is based.

Coronavirus: The current situation in Singapore and the world | THE BIG STORY | The Straits Times

The Costa Fortuna's case has similarities with that of the Westerdam, a cruise ship that was at sea for two weeks and was rejected by five countries over fears its passengers could have the virus. Cambodia finally allowed it to dock on the country's southern coast on Feb 13.

Worldwide, the total number of people with Covid-19 has passed 100,000 while 3,500 have died across 95 nations and territories.

Coronavirus: How does the virus spread? | THE BIG STORY | The Straits Times

Italy has been hard hit by the virus with more than 300 fatalities, the most deaths from the disease of any country outside China, where the outbreak began in December.

A quarter of its population is now in lockdown, with the number of infections soaring past 7,000 in the country.
Coronavirus: Inevitable that Singapore will see Covid-19 deaths, says Health Minister Gan Kim Yong
Health Minster Gan Kim Yong told a briefing that patients in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) are in quite critical condition.
Health Minster Gan Kim Yong told a briefing that patients in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) are in quite critical condition.ST PHOTO: JASON QUAH
PUBLISHEDMAR 6, 2020, 3:44 PM SGTUPDATEDMAR 6, 2020, 8:34 PM
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Timothy Goh 
SINGAPORE - It is inevitable that Singapore will see a fatality from the coronavirus, said Health Minister Gan Kim Yong on Friday (March 6).

Mr Gan, who co-chairs the multi-ministry task force set up to combat the spread of the virus, told a briefing that patients in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) - seven as of Thursday - are in quite critical condition.

"So far our healthcare workers are working very hard and trying their best to support them and hopefully they can recover. But it's inevitable that at some point in time, we will see fatalities from Covid-19, as we've seen all around the world," he said.


Mr Gan has given a similar warning in the past. He told a briefing on Feb 12: "While most infected patients will recover, some may become seriously ill, and a small number may succumb to the infection ultimately. We have to be prepared for the worst."

Medical services director Kenneth Mak, who was also at Friday's briefing, said Singapore was "fortunate" that a number of those hospitalised were only mildly symptomatic and patients had been kept in the hospitals for long periods to ensure they are free of the virus before being discharged.

He told the briefing: "There are some individuals in the ICU who are ill, (they) all require oxygen support, which for a large part involves the use of a ventilator. A number of these individuals have received other treatments, including the use of antiviral medications."


While the Health Ministry does not comment on individual patients in the ICU, Case 42, a 39-year-old Bangladeshi worker hospitalised around a month ago, has yet to be discharged.

He had been in the ICU for about three weeks as of Feb 27. The Bangladesh High Commission said he had been suffering from respiratory and kidney problems and pneumonia before being infected with Covid-19.
askST: Can coronavirus be spread by sweat, or via activities such as singing?
There is currently no evidence showing that the virus can be transmitted through one's perspiration.
There is currently no evidence showing that the virus can be transmitted through one's perspiration.PHOTO: ST FILE
PUBLISHEDMAR 11, 2020, 6:57 PM SGT
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Cheryl Tan 
SINGAPORE - Concerns have been raised over social activities such as singing and exercising in the light of the coronavirus outbreak.

As of Wednesday (March 11), Singapore's largest Safra Jurong cluster of confirmed coronavirus cases went up to 40, against a total of 178 cases.

The patients, who had attended a Feb 15 Chinese New Year celebration held in the ballroom of Joy Garden restaurant at Safra Jurong, are members of a Hokkien singing group.


This has raised concerns as to whether the disease, known as Covid-19, can be transmitted through singing.

Similar concerns have been expressed about whether the virus can be spread through sweat by those who like going to the gym and running in marathons.

Q: CAN COVID-19 BE TRANSMITTED THROUGH SINGING?
A: Infected individuals who sing could transmit the virus through their saliva or respiratory droplets.


These droplets could then transmit the virus to other individuals through both direct and indirect means.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

Professor Leo Yee Sin, executive director of the National Centre for Infectious Diseases, said at an ST Panel Discussion on Monday that both direct and indirect forms of droplet transmission are not mutually exclusive. For example, individuals who are in close interaction with one another are likely to have touched the same surfaces, making them equally vulnerable to both forms of transmission.

Q: CAN COVID-19 BE SPREAD BY SWEAT?
A: There is currently no evidence showing that the virus can be transmitted through one's perspiration. However, infectious diseases expert Leong Hoe Nam said in an interview with The New Paper that "sweat alone won't spread the disease, but it could if it mixes with gunk on a person's nose or if the person coughs and contaminates the sweat".

Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Related Story
13 myths about the coronavirus: WHO explains why they are not true
Related Story
askST: Can Covid-19 infect pets and what precautions should pet owners take?
Related Story
Coronavirus 101: What do you want to know?
Q: WOULD IT STILL BE SAFE TO GO TO THE GYM?
A: Patrons should be mindful of gym equipment that is commonly used and has high-contact surfaces.

However, gyms have stepped up their disinfection routines and sanitised equipment more frequently as well as implemented mandatory temperature checks.

Dr Leong said as long as all patrons maintain their hygiene, gyms are unlikely to be potential clusters for disease transmission.

Q: CAN THE VIRUS BE TRANSMITTED IF I JOIN MARATHONS?
A: Since marathons involve large gatherings of people, joining these events could increase the risk of human-to-human transmissions.

Marathons being held overseas have been cancelled or are at the risk of cancellation in the light of the virus, such as the Paris half-marathon that was scheduled to take place on March 1, with an expected turnout of 44,000 runners.

National Development Minister Lawrence Wong said on Tuesday that the current advisory on large-scale events in Singapore is being reviewed, and tightened measures will have downstream implications on upcoming events in view of intensified social-distancing measures.
Singapore economy to shrink 0.8% in Q1 on coronavirus hit: MAS poll of private analysts
The current MAS survey shows the economy will grow by between 0 per cent and 0.9 per cent this year, compared with 1 per cent to 1.9 per cent in the December poll.
The current MAS survey shows the economy will grow by between 0 per cent and 0.9 per cent this year, compared with 1 per cent to 1.9 per cent in the December poll.ST PHOTO: MARK CHEONG
PUBLISHEDMAR 11, 2020, 12:00 PM SGT
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Ovais Subhani 
SINGAPORE - Private-sector economists see the Singapore economy contracting by 0.8 per cent in the first quarter of 2020 from the coronavirus impact, while slashing their forecast for full-year growth to 0.6 per cent.

The forecast was from 21 economists and analysts polled by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) in its latest quarterly survey sent out on Feb 18.

Notably, an escalation in the Covid-19 outbreak was cited in the survey as the biggest downside risk to the forecasts. The Covid-19 outbreak that started late last year in China has since spread across the globe. The spike in infections in far-off places such as Europe and that United States has spooked markets worldwide and has increased talk of a global recession.


The Singapore Government downgraded its own forecast of gross domestic product growth by a full percentage point to a -0.5 per cent to 1.5 per cent range last month. The range raised the spectre of the first full-year recession for Singapore in about two decades.

The forecast for full-year growth in the MAS survey shows a big drop from the 1.5 per cent growth the economists had pencilled in for 2020 in December. The Singapore grew 0.7 per cent in 2019.

All respondents to the survey cited the virus outbreak as a downside risk, while 94.1 per cent ranked it as the top reason growth may come lower than their forecast.


The current MAS survey shows the economy will grow by between 0 per cent and 0.9 per cent this year, compared with 1 per cent to 1.9 per cent in the December poll.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

The economists surveyed saw the virus outbreak hurting all sectors of the economy.

Manufacturing growth is forecast to shrink 0.3 per cent, wholesale and retail trade to contract by 0.7 per cent, and accommodation and food services by 1.6 per cent.

The economy is forecast to recover in 2021, expanding by 2 per cent. The range of forecasts is for 1.5 per cent to 2.4 per cent growth next year.

The economists polled were also wary of an escalation in trade tensions - seen by 35.3 per cent as a downside risk - and geopolitical risks, including uncertainties about the outcome of the United States presidential elections in November. Some 29.4 per cent identified geopolitical risks.

Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Related Story
Singapore business confidence falls to record low on coronavirus worries: Survey
Related Story
Stock rebound stalls as doubts about US coronavirus response grow; STI down 1.2%
Related Story
Interactive: What we know so far about the coronavirus
For the first quarter of 2020, all respondents expect lower corporate profitability in year-on-year terms, and forecast a rise in corporate spreads. Meanwhile, 55.6 per cent of them expect private residential property prices to decline in quarter-on-quarter terms, while the remaining 44.4 per cent project that prices will remain stable.

For the whole of 2020, most respondents expect corporate profitability to decline.

The majority believe private residential property prices will remain broadly unchanged, while half project that corporate spreads will rise.

In 2021, respondents predict an improvement in corporate profitability, with 100 per cent expecting an increase. The majority expect private residential property prices to stay flat in 2021, and about half project that corporate spreads will fall.

Respondents cited a tightening in global financial conditions, an escalation in the global Covid-19 situation, and the heightening of trade tensions as the top three factors that could potentially weigh on financial market and lending conditions in Singapore.

All three factors were cited by 30 per cent of respondents as downside drivers.

Related Story
Interactive: How coronavirus is spreading across the world
Meanwhile, more accommodative global financial conditions emerged as the most-cited factor that could drive an improvement in financial market and lending conditions.

A rapid containment of the outbreak was the next most commonly cited upside driver.

Singapore will continue to accept cruise ships despite higher risk of spread
Passengers arriving at the Singapore Cruise Centre being screened by thermal scanners.
Passengers arriving at the Singapore Cruise Centre being screened by thermal scanners.ST PHOTO: TIMOTHY DAVID
PUBLISHEDMAR 10, 2020, 5:00 AM SGT
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Rei Kurohi 
Singapore will continue to accept ships that are based here, including cruise ships, said the Health Ministry's director of medical services Kenneth Mak yesterday.

He added that Singapore has had ships coming into and leaving the country since the Covid-19 outbreak began in January, just as planes have not stopped taking passengers in and out of the country.

"What's important is recognising the risk that infections may occur on ships and they can spread very easily," said Associate Professor Mak.


"What's important is that as we receive some of these ships back in Singapore, we have a high degree of vigilance to make sure that none of (the passengers) are infected, and if they are, then we must be vigilant in making sure that we're able to identify them, isolate them and control any further spread."

Prof Mak was responding to questions from The Straits Times' senior health correspondent Salma Khalik on whether Singapore should stop cruise ships from docking here as other countries have done.

Ms Khalik also asked during yesterday's panel discussion, which was broadcast on the newspaper's social media channels, if cruise ships pose a greater danger of infection compared to planes.


Prof Mak said ships and planes are similar in that passengers cannot leave halfway through a journey, but he added that the dynamics of social interaction are very different between the two.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

"If you're on a plane, you're spending most of your time... in your seat," he said. "You may get out of that seat and walk down the aisle, but most of the time you're going to the toilet and back to your seat."

The interactions one has with fellow passengers on a plane is therefore very limited, Prof Mak said. Any spread that takes place would occur in the vicinity of the seat.

He said: "Conventionally, we talk about investigating and looking at people who might be seated in the same row as you are if you're sick, two rows in front and two rows behind you."

In contrast, most interactions on a cruise ship occur during social activities such as meals, Prof Mak noted. Ship passengers also interact with one another much more than plane passengers.

The Costa Fortuna cruise ship will dock in Singapore as scheduled today. Passengers will undergo health checks to ensure they are healthy prior to disembarkation.
The Costa Fortuna cruise ship will dock in Singapore as scheduled today. Passengers will undergo health checks to ensure they are healthy prior to disembarkation. PHOTO: COSTA CRUISES WEBSITE
The possibility of a virus spreading is therefore potentially much higher in a ship, Prof Mak said.

UNDER CONTROL

The next question is, should tourists come to Singapore? And the answer, we think, is yes, because we think we've got a handle on the situation.

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR HSU LI YANG, of the National University of Singapore's Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health.

Ms Khalik also asked the panel if it is safe to travel during the upcoming March and June school holidays.

Panellist Tikki Pangestu, a visiting professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and former director of the World Health Organisation's Research Policy and Cooperation department, said it is fine to travel to countries that have not seen much local transmission.

"I think it depends on your threshold of risk taking. Even within countries (with more cases), there are higher-risk areas. In Italy, it is the northern part of the country, and in South Korea, it's mostly Daegu, not the whole country," he said.

"So I think you just have to make, let's say, a judgment based on your own individual risk levels."

Associate Professor Hsu Li Yang of the National University of Singapore's Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health said cutting back on non-essential travel and paying attention to which countries are seeing a rise in cases suggesting community spread is going to be the "new normal" for a while.

He added: "The next question is, should tourists come to Singapore? And the answer, we think, is yes, because we think we've got a handle on the situation."

Professor Leo Yee Sin, executive director of the National Centre for Infectious Diseases, said: "We also have to watch out in terms of introduction and importation.

"But, personally, I think that Singapore is the safest place."
Coronavirus: No evidence Covid-19 can spread through air-con systems
A study by the National Centre for Infectious Diseases found that the coronavirus could be found in isolation facilities - including in an air duct connected to the room of a patient.
A study by the National Centre for Infectious Diseases found that the coronavirus could be found in isolation facilities - including in an air duct connected to the room of a patient.ST PHOTO: JASON QUAH
PUBLISHEDMAR 10, 2020, 5:00 AM SGT
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Audrey Tan 
There is currently no evidence that Covid-19 can spread through air-conditioning systems, said Professor Leo Yee Sin, executive director of the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID) yesterday.

While a recent study by NCID researchers had found that the virus causing Covid-19 could be found in isolation facilities - including in an air duct connected to the room of one of the patients - it does not prove that this disease is an airborne one, experts told The Straits Times yesterday.

Preliminary studies have shown that the main way the virus is spread is through respiratory droplets.


The findings from the NCID study, which was published in the Journal of the American Medical Association last Wednesday, had found that a Covid-19 patient with mild symptoms could cause "extensive environmental contamination" in an isolation room, before it was cleaned.

Samples taken from the toilet bowl and sink used by one patient had tested positive for the presence of the virus, although post-cleaning samples were negative, suggesting that current decontamination measures are sufficient.

The study also suggested that "small virus-laden droplets may be displaced by airflows and deposited on equipment such as vents", prompting international headlines on how this could be a route of transmission.


Prof Leo explained that the purpose of the study was to look into environment contamination rather than how the virus spreads.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

"It is not so much to prove if it is an airborne condition or not; it is just merely telling you that the virus is scattered around in the isolation facilities."

Determining whether the virus could be an airborne one required a different set of experiments, she pointed out.

"Currently, we are progressively inching up... to answer these questions, whether or not the virus could be spread through droplets, or whether or not it is airborne transmission," she said in response to a question from The Straits Times senior health correspondent Salma Khalik, who moderated a panel discussion with four experts on Covid-19.

Associate Professor Kenneth Mak, director of medical services at the Ministry of Health, who was also on yesterday's panel, said the findings from the NCID study were consistent with what is currently known about how the virus spreads through respiratory droplets.

He noted that the air-conditioning systems in isolation rooms were not like those in homes.

Prof Mak noted that air-conditioning units in homes are usually located at the top, with air circulating around the room.

But in isolation rooms, the vents are located at the bottom, and airflow is tightly controlled so air is prevented from "spilling over" into other spaces.

"So when you take a swab and find viruses around the vents, it is actually a combination of droplets falling by gravity into those areas, as well as a bit of airflow that comes through," said Prof Mak.

"It's not the same situation as in a home where you have an air-conditioning vent and you assume therefore it's airborne. This is not. This is predominantly still droplet transmission."
More shock than anger: S'porean student opens up about Covid-19 racist attack in London
Facebook user Jonathan Mok, who said he has been studying in London for two years, posted two photos of himself showing a swollen eye.
Facebook user Jonathan Mok, who said he has been studying in London for two years, posted two photos of himself showing a swollen eye.PHOTOS: JONATHAN MOK/FACEBOOK
PUBLISHEDMAR 3, 2020, 9:25 AM SGTUPDATEDMAR 7, 2020, 4:51 PM
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Jean Iau 
SINGAPORE - More shock than anger or fear – that was what Singaporean student Jonathan Mok felt when he was jumped by a group of strangers in London in a coronavirus-related racist attack on Feb 24.

The 23-year-old final-year law student at the University College London opened up about his ordeal on Tuesday (March 3) on Facebook and posted two photos of himself showing a swollen eye.

“I always felt that London was one of the most open places and this incident doesn’t change the fact that most people are nice; it’s just a few (who aren’t),” Mr Mok told The Straits Times on Tuesday of the assault.


“But even with a minority of people (who engage in this behaviour), it is a very serious problem.”

The attack happened in Oxford Street, near the London Underground's Tottenham Court Road station at around 9.15pm, after he walked past a group of five young people, including a girl.

He turned around and looked at them after he heard one of them say “coronavirus”.


The man then shouted, “Don’t you dare look at me, you...” and punched him in the face twice as passers-by tried to stop the group.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

Mr Mok said that another man shouted, “I don’t want your coronavirus in my country”, before punching him in the face again.

The group fled before the police arrived.

The Metropolitan Police in London told ST they are investigating a “racially aggravated assault” in which a 23- year-old man was “punched and sustained facial injuries”, referring to Mr Mok without naming him.


During the attack, Mr Mok said people in a nearby souvenir shop came out to try to defuse the situation. Since the attack, he has visited the shop to thank the people there and they provided him support and shared his sentiments about racism issues.

The Metropolitan Police said no arrest has been made, but they are currently trying to identify the suspects through inquiries and available closed-circuit television footage. They have been in touch with Mr Mok since the incident.

He was told at a hospital’s accident and emergency department that he had fractures on his face and might have to undergo reconstructive surgery.

“I thought it was important to share and start the debate,” Mr Mok said of his post, which has since garnered more than 6,400 reactions and 23,000 shares. “Race issues have been prevalent for so long and this shows how dangerous they can be... Even when they start off verbally, they can escalate to physical violence.”

Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Related Story
UK police release images of 4 men linked to Covid-19 racist attack on Singaporean student in London
Related Story
'Coronavirus' sprayed on Japanese restaurant in Paris
Related Story
Coronavirus: Chinese community in Australia complain of racism as MPs call for calm
On Facebook, he wrote: “Why should anyone, simply because of the colour of their skin, be subjected to abuse, in any form, verbal or physical? Why should I keep quiet when someone makes a racist remark towards me.

“Racism is not stupidity – racism is hate. Racists constantly find excuses to expound their hatred – and in this current backdrop of the coronavirus, they’ve found yet another excuse.”

The University College London said it is offering support to Mr Mok.

“We are horrified to hear about this unprovoked racially-motivated attack on a member of our community," said a spokesman on Wednesday. "We condemn racism, bullying and harassment of any kind." 

Mr Mok said that the BBC and CNN contacted him for comment, while Singapore’s High Commission in London contacted him to offer support.

The Singapore High Commission said in a statement on Wednesday (March 4) that it is “deeply disturbed” the incident, the first racially-motivated incident relating to the coronavirus that it is aware of against a Singaporean in Britain.

In a post on its Facebook page, the Singapore High Commission in London said that it is working with the Metropolitan Police at the highest level to ensure investigations are followed through with the utmost priority.

It said: “We do not believe that the assault reflects the majority view of the British people in particular towards Singapore, given the close and special relationship between the UK and Singapore. There are unfortunately always abhorrent elements in every society, especially in such uncertain and anxious times.”


British High Commissioner in Singapore Kara Owen said in a tweet on Tuesday that she was “shocked and saddened by the attack”. 

She added: “(There is) no place in society for such nasty behaviour.”


Kara Owen
✔
@karaowen
Shocked and saddened by the attack on Singapore student, Jonathan Mok, in London. No place in society for such nasty behaviour. We are in touch with @SHCLon and the local police are investigating the incident. My thoughts are with Jonathan and I hope for his speedy recovery.
Global stocks plunge into bear market with pandemic declared, Trump travel ban; STI down 3.8%
An electronic stock board at SGX Centre on March 12, 2020.
An electronic stock board at SGX Centre on March 12, 2020.ST PHOTO: MARK CHEONG
PUBLISHEDMAR 12, 2020, 8:29 AM SGTUPDATED2 HOURS AGO
FACEBOOKTWITTER
LONDON (REUTERS, BLOOMBERG) - Global stocks plunged into a bear market and oil slumped on Thursday (March 12) after US President Donald Trump banned travel from Europe to stem the coronavirus, threatening more disruption to the world economy.

With the pandemic wreaking havoc on the daily life of millions, investors were also disappointed by the lack of broad measures in Trump's plan to fight the Covid-19 outbreak, prompting traders to bet on further aggressive easing by the Federal Reserve.

"He (Trump) did not announce any new concrete measures such as a large-scale payroll tax cut to buffer the economy against the impending coronavirus slowdown," said Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst at OANDA. "That has probably disappointed markets more than anything."


European shares plummeted to their lowest in almost four years, with the benchmark STOXX 600 index falling 4.9 per cent in early deals. Travel and leisure stocks shed 8.6 per cent, hitting their lowest in more than 6 years.

The falls pushed the MSCI All-Country World Index, which tracks stocks across 49 countries, into bear market territory, meaning it has fallen at least 20 per cent from its 52-week peak. The index was down nearly 2 per cent on the day.

In Asia, shares in  Singapore, Australia, Japan, Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia also entered bear territory.


The Dow reached that unwelcome milestone on Wednesday, breaking an 11-year bull run. It came after the WHO declared the coronavirus a pandemic on Wednesday rattled traders who were already on edge, The Trump travel ban ratcheted up fears the spreading virus will plunge the global economy into a recession. 

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

Dow futures dropped as Mr Trump's economic plan stopped short of a detailed rescue package.. He announced the US government will give individuals and small and mid-sized businesses a three-month tax holiday to try to fight the economic impact of the coronavirus, and give affected companies US$50 billion (S$69.8 billion) more in low-interest loans.

US stock index futures plunged nearly 5 per cent, almost hitting their circuit breakers for the second time in a week.

Coronavirus: WHO declares pandemic | The Straits Times

“The ferocity of the sell-off reflects a massive swing in investor sentiment from complacency to panic,” said Mr Paul O’Connor, head of multi-asset at Janus Henderson Investors. “Whereas just a few weeks ago, investors were anticipating a V-shaped recovery in global growth, they are now pricing in a high probability of a global recession.”

Japan’s Nikkei index plunged 4.4 per cent while Australia’s S&P/ASX index dived 7.4 per cent, the worst one-day drop since the financial crisis in 2008.

South Korea’s Kospi index sank 3.9 per cent while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index fell 3.8 per cent. The Shanghai Composite Index ended down 1.5 per cent.

Singapore stocks were also caught up in the maelstrom, with the Straits Times Index (STI) closing down 105.08 points or 3.8 per cent. 

Thailand was the worst performer in Asia with the SE index nosediving 11.1 per cent while the Philippines lost 9.7 per cent.

"The travel ban from Europe has definitely taken everyone by surprise," said Khoon Goh, head of Asia Research at ANZ in Singapore.

Already we know the economic impact is significant, and with this additional measure on top it's just going to multiply the impact across businesses. This is something that markets had not factored in ... it's a huge near-term economic cost."

Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Related Story
WHO labels coronavirus a 'pandemic' as Europe scrambles to contain it
Related Story
Trump suspends all travel from Europe to the United States to fight coronavirus
Related Story
Dow ends 5.9% lower, enters 'bear market' on virus fears
The US dollar slid in another seismic shift to price in more US interest rate cuts on Thursday, after Trump disappointed markets with a coronavirus plan light on details.

The dollar fell 0.8 per cent to 103.63 yen and lost 0.14 per cent to 0.9366 franc.

The euro traded at US$1.1265, down 0.04 per cent ahead of the European Central Bank's policy meeting later in the day. The ECB is all but certain to unveil new stimulus measures, including new, ultra-cheap loans for banks to pass onto small and medium-sized firms. 

In the money market, traders further raised expectations of another US rate cut, even after the Fed's emergency cut last week.

Fed fund rate futures are now pricing in a large possibility of a 1.0 percentage point cut, rather than 0.75, at a policy review on March 17-18.

Safe-haven assets were back in favour.

Gold edged up half a per cent to US$1,641.71 per ounce but still stood well below Monday's high above $1,700.

The 10-year U..Treasuries yield fell to 0.7442 per cent , though it is still above a record low of 0.318 per cent touched on Monday.

The two-year yield fell to 0.4314 per cent, but stood well above Monday's low of 0.251 per cent.

Related Story
Interactive: How coronavirus is spreading across the world
In commodities, oil prices were hit by an intensifying price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia, on top of fears of a sharp slowdown in the global economy.

The United Arab Emirates followed Saudi Arabia in promising to raise oil output to a record high in April.

US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude shed 4.94 per cent to US$31.35 per barrel.
S'pore has to be prepared for more imported Covid-19 cases: Gan
The multi-ministry task force on the coronavirus, including (from left) the Health Ministry's director for medical services Kenneth Mak, Minister for Health Gan Kim Yong and task force co-chair Lawrence Wong, giving updates at a press conference yest
The multi-ministry task force on the coronavirus, including (from left) the Health Ministry's director for medical services Kenneth Mak, Minister for Health Gan Kim Yong and task force co-chair Lawrence Wong, giving updates at a press conference yesterday. ST PHOTO: ARIFFIN JAMAR
PUBLISHEDFEB 26, 2020, 5:00 AM SGT
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Karamjit KaurTransport and Housing Editor 
Timothy Goh 
Singapore must be prepared for more Covid-19 cases as the global spread of the disease increases the risk of importation, said Health Minister Gan Kim Yong.

"While we have seen the number of new cases here in Singapore remain low over the last few days, we must remain aware that the global situation remains dynamic and we cannot afford to be complacent," he said at a press conference.

Noting that there has been a surge in the number of cases worldwide, Mr Gan, who co-chairs a multi-ministry task force to tackle the coronavirus, said: "This means the risk of importation remains serious and imminent."


Coronavirus: Link established between Grace Assembly of God and Life Church and Missions clusters

Outside China, the coronavirus has surfaced in more than 30 nations, with major outbreaks surfacing in South Korea, Italy and Iran.

In Italy, which is the worst hit in Europe, more than 200 people have been infected and seven people have died, prompting some areas to shut schools and ban public events.

With the numbers rising quickly to hit almost 1,000 in South Korea, Singapore yesterday announced it would bar visitors from Daegu city and Cheongdo county - the two most affected areas in the country. Similar restrictions exist for travellers from China.


On whether there are plans to do the same for Italy, National Development Minister Lawrence Wong, who co-chairs the task force, said: "We are very mindful of the risk from Italy as well. So it's on our radar screen."

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

He noted, though, that unlike China and South Korea, there are fewer flights from the affected regions in Italy to Singapore.

Even as Singapore continues to do everything possible to contain the spread of the virus, "it is a big unknown" how the situation will evolve in other countries, he cautioned. "There might well be a scenario where the virus becomes endemic in the human population and we have to learn how to live with it, take the necessary precautions."

Mr Gan and Mr Wong said that as the situation evolves, Singapore will continue to monitor and reassess the approach and measures.

On Feb 7, Singapore raised the Disease Outbreak Response System Condition (Dorscon) level from yellow to orange, amid indications that the disease was spreading in the community.

Asked if going back to yellow was a possibility, Mr Gan said: "Whether we move the Dorscon level is not a checklist where we tick off everything. It is a judgment call, you take into account the factors, the situation, what other countries are doing. At the same time, we have enough flexibility to adjust many of our measures even in Dorscon orange."

In its latest update yesterday, the Ministry of Health (MOH) confirmed one new Covid-19 case in Singapore, taking the total number of infections here to 91. The latest case is linked to a previous one.

MOH also announced that a further five cases were discharged, taking the total number of recovered cases to 58. Of the 33 confirmed cases who are still in hospital, most are stable or improving, but seven are in critical condition.

As Singapore keeps up its efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus within its borders and to monitor global developments, work with its closest neighbour will continue, said Mr Gan.

On Feb 11, Singapore and Malaysia announced that a joint working group will be set up to strengthen cooperation in tackling the spread of the coronavirus.

Yesterday, Mr Gan said the work will go on. "At an official level, we are scheduled to meet shortly. This work will continue regardless of the political situation."

Malaysia's ruling coalition collapsed on Monday, followed by the resignation of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who has been appointed interim PM.
Coronavirus: Singapore reviewing its stockpiles of essential items, diversifying supplies, says Chan Chun Sing
1 of 4


ST VIDEO: ALPHONSUS CHERN
PUBLISHEDMAR 8, 2020, 6:00 PM SGTUPDATEDMAR 9, 2020, 6:56 AM
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Fabian Koh 
SINGAPORE - Singapore is reviewing its policies on stockpiling essential items to prepare for global and prolonged crises in the light of the coronavirus outbeak, Trade and Industry Minister Chan Chun Sing has said.

The country will also continue to diversify its sources to ensure a steady supply of essential goods and products, he told reporters last Saturday (March 7) after visiting supermarket chain NTUC FairPrice's Benoi Distribution Centre in Joo Koon.

"In the past, maybe our stock has to cater more to localised contingencies or regional contingencies. But in this particular case (Covid-19), we have to review some of our assumptions to look at the global contingency, where many of our conventional supply lines might be disrupted," he said.


On diversifying Singapore's supply chains, he said this entails looking at "where the goods come from, where the manpower comes from, which market supplies to us and even which shipping line to bring goods into Singapore."

For certain essential items, Singapore "will carefully build up some local capacities that we can surge in times of need", he added.

Mr Chan's comments come a month after Singapore saw a bout of panic-buying at supermarkets when the Government moved its disease outbreak response level to Orange, and at a time when citizens of some countries are emptying supermarket shelves there as the Covid-19 outbreak continues to spread.


The minister cited how Singapore has diversified its rice supply, which mostly came from Thailand and Vietnam in the past. Today, the country also gets its rice from Japan and India, he noted.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

For noodles, he said Singapore does not have to stockpile as much of this item as it can ramp up local production if needed.

But that also means the economic agencies have to examine where the flour and ingredients come from to ensure there are no loopholes in the entire supply chain, he said.

He noted that supply chains across the world are shifting, with some countries are halting exports of some products.

Singapore thus has to always think two steps ahead, he said. This includes having backup suppliers capable of opening up new supply lines "when things don't work out".

Staff working at NTUC FairPrice's Benoi Distribution Centre

"These are things that we have to develop over the years and it cannot be done overnight. Now even if you pay money, you may not have the relationship with the suppliers to provide us with the materials."

Mr Chan commended the staff from FairPrice and other firms in the sector for securing goods and products in overseas markets quickly, and at the most affordable prices.

Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Related Story
Interactive: How coronavirus is spreading across the world
Related Story
Coronavirus cases in Singapore: What we know so far
One area in which Singapore can improve on is in replenishing supplies in supermarkets when demand surges, he said.

Referring to the panic-buying episode a few weeks ago, he said: "When we saw some of the shortages over the weekend, it was not because we do not have supplies in the country. Some of it was just that we took a bit more time to deliver it from here (distribution centre) down to the stores. So that is something that we will seek to do better moving forward."

He noted that while FairPrice is able to increase its delivery frequency from twice daily to thrice, the "whole nation's resources" should be brought in to reinforce the supermarket chain's capacity if necessary.

Mr Seah Kian Peng, chief executive of NTUC FairPrice, said the chain is increasing its inventory of essential items such as rice, canned vegetables, canned meat and biscuits, to better handle surges in demand.

Asked about the Covid-19 outbreak's impact on businesses, Mr Chan said it has affected many firms, beyond those in tourism-related industries, such as aviation, food and beverage and retail.

However, he said he is "quietly cheered" as more business leaders are making plans to diversify their supply chains to boost their resilience.

They are also aware that the shifting global supply chain will provide opportunities for Singapore to emerge as a trusted hub to do business, he added.

Related Story
Coronavirus: SG Clean certificates dished out to hawker stalls meeting new hygiene standards
Related Story
Five of six face masks fail absorbency test
To help contain the coronavirus, Singaporeans can exercise personal responsibility, including by purchasing only whatever they need, he said.

Mr Chan also encouraged every family to have a small emergency pack that contains items such as thermometers, hand sanitisers, masks, first aid equipment and some food supplies.

Prioritise those front-line workers who need essential supplies more urgently, he added.


While Singapore has managed to keep the number of Covid-19 cases down, the spike in cases means "we must be mentally prepared that some time down the road, we might also see a spike in our cases, significantly different from the numbers that we are seeing today," he said.

Man gets coronavirus after sharing ward in SGH with case who later tests positive; hospital reviews its processes
The man, Case 126, had been in the same ward as Case 109 in Singapore General Hospital on Feb 28, 2020.
The man, Case 126, had been in the same ward as Case 109 in Singapore General Hospital on Feb 28, 2020.PHOTO: LIANHE ZAOBAO
PUBLISHEDMAR 7, 2020, 5:00 AM SGTUPDATEDMAR 7, 2020, 2:53 PM
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Toh Ting Wei 
A 77-year-old Singaporean man, who shared a ward with another patient who later tested positive for Covid-19, was reported to have contracted the virus.

The Ministry of Health (MOH) said yesterday that the man, Case 126, had been in the same ward as Case 109 in Singapore General Hospital (SGH) last Saturday and Sunday.

On Monday afternoon, it was confirmed that Case 109, a 70-year-old Singaporean man, had been infected with Covid-19.


MOH had said on Tuesday that Case 109 went to SGH last Saturday and was "isolated" in a ward with greater separation.

MOH director of medical services Kenneth Mak said it is still investigating the possibility that Case 126 contracted the virus from Case 109.

"But that is obviously a concern that we have when two patients in the same ward are diagnosed with the infection over a short period of time," said Associate Professor Mak.


"We have asked SGH to look into their processes to make sure that there were no lapses, no breaches of their processes and to ensure that patient safety is not compromised," he added.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

SGH's head of infectious diseases Tan Thuan Tong said Case 109 and 126 were put in the same ward before the former was diagnosed with the coronavirus.

He said patients who do not meet case definitions for Covid-19 but have respiratory tract infections are put in designated wards to protect other patients at hospitals.

Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Related Story
Coronavirus: Singapore exploring plasma therapy for virus patients
Related Story
13 new Covid-19 cases in S'pore, including 9 linked to Safra Jurong dinner, and an SIA steward
Related Story
Coronavirus cases in Singapore: What we know so far
"The reason why (Case 126) was in the same ward was (that) as part of the enhanced precautions, patients who have acute respiratory infection will be placed in wards with greater separation between patients to minimise the risk of infection."

He said in such wards, each bed is almost 3m apart from the other.

"In this ward, we also ask patients to put on masks, we ask them to practise social distancing," he added. "Moving forward, I think we will look at our processes."

Associate Professor Tan said another patient who shared the ward with the two cases is currently well.

The 77-year-old man has been quarantined since Wednesday and was confirmed to be infected on Thursday. He is now in an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases.

15 people quarantined in Batam after having close contact with Singapore's COVID-19 patients
Batam COVID-19
Indonesian schoolchildren wearing protective face masks watch an air show performance in Batam on February 4, 2020. (Photo: ADP/Teguh Prihatna) 
03 Mar 2020 12:46PM
(Updated: 03 Mar 2020 12:50PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

JAKARTA: Fifteen local people in Batam have been put under quarantine after coming in close contact with three visitors from Singapore who were diagnosed with COVID-19.

This came after Singapore’s Health Ministry announced on Sunday (Mar 1) that the three – two Singaporean residents and a Myanmar national – tested positive for the virus following their visit to Batam from Feb 21 to Feb 23.

Advertisement
Head of Riau Islands Health Agency Tjeptjep Yudiana was quoted as saying by Jakarta Post that the local authorities had identified the locals on Sunday, after being notified by their Singapore counterparts.

“They will be observed for a week,” he said on Monday.

READ: Indonesia's COVID-19 patient ill for two weeks before she was tested in hospital
The three visitors from Singapore have been identified as Case 101, Case 103 and Case 104.

Advertisement

Case 101 is a 61-year-old Singaporean man linked to a previous case, Case 93, as well as Case 103. He tested positive on Feb 29. 

Case 103, a 37-year-old Singaporean woman, is a family member of Case 93. When in Batam, she visited a property that she owned, Mr Yudiana said. 

Case 104 is a 25-year-old Myanmar national and a maid employed by Case 103.

Case 103 and Case 104 were put under home quarantine on Feb 26, three days after they returned from Batam, after they were identified as a close contact of Case 93.

They tested positive on Sunday.

Mr Yudiana said they traced back the steps of the trio, including the places they visited and the people they had contact with.

“They met with around 100 people. But for now, we’ve only put 11 of them under observation at the Haj Dormitory and four others in their homes,” he said, according to the Jakarta Post report.

READ: Indonesia says lack of COVID-19 cases a blessing from God
He added that the 15 people appeared well and their samples have been sent for testing at the Health Ministry’s laboratory in Jakarta.

“Even if they test negative, they will still be observed for a week,” he said.

The 15 people included a 33-year-old man, his wife and two children. He was Case 103’s driver.

The rest were a 39-year-old woman, who was Case 103’s domestic helper, and 10 of her relatives and close acquaintances  

Mr Yudiana said the agency was working with the local police to track down those on the ferry that carried the three visitors to Batam.

The passenger list included 26 Indonesians and 82 foreigners.  

On Monday, Indonesia reported its first two COVID-19 cases, a 31-year-old dance instructor and her 64-year-old mother. They were in contact with a Japanese citizen who visited Jakarta and later tested positive in Malaysia.
US to suspend all travel from Europe for 30 days to fight COVID-19 outbreak
Trump speaking on coronavirus Mar 11
US President Donald Trump addresses the nation from the Oval Office about the widening coronavirus crisis on Mar 11, 2020 in Washington, DC. (Photo: AFP)
12 Mar 2020 09:12AM
(Updated: 12 Mar 2020 01:05PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

WASHINGTON: The US will suspend all travel from Europe to the country for 30 days in an effort to curb the COVID-19 outbreak, said President Donald Trump on Wednesday night (Mar 11).

The travel restriction will not apply to the United Kingdom, he said in a televised address.

Advertisement
"To keep new cases from entering our shores, we will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30 days. The new rules will go into effect Friday at midnight," said Trump.

Advertisement

He said Europe saw more cases because governments failed to stop travel from China, where the COVID-19 epidemic began.

“The European Union failed to take the same precautions and restrict travel from China and other hot spots. As a result, a large number of new clusters in the United States were seeded by travellers from Europe," said the president.

READ: Italy shuts stores across country to fight coronavirus
READ: Denmark shuts schools and universities after surge in COVID-19 cases

Trump briefly caused alarm as he announced that the "tremendous amount of trade and cargo" from Europe would also be banned, forcing officials to clarify that the measures would apply only to humans, not goods or cargo.

The president, facing a re-election in November, has taken fire for what critics say is a slow response to the spread of the coronavirus, which has claimed more than 4,500 lives worldwide.

“We are marshalling the full power of the federal government and the private sector to protect the American people," he said.

"This is the most aggressive and comprehensive effort to confront a foreign virus in modern history.”

READ: COVID-19 outbreak 'a pandemic' - WHO chief
AMERICANS ADVISED NOT TO TRAVEL

The US State Department later on Wednesday issued a travel advisory on its website, advising citizens to reconsider travel abroad due to the global impact of the coronavirus outbreak and countries' response to it.

"Many areas throughout the world are now experiencing COVID-19 outbreaks and taking action that may limit traveller mobility, including quarantines and border restrictions," the notice said.

The Department of Defense separately announced on Wednesday it was placing a 60-day travel restriction for service members, Pentagon civilians and families travelling to, from or through China, Iran, Italy and South Korea, among others.

These countries have received a Level 3 designation from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

The announcement comes after multiple active-duty US service members fell sick in the worldwide coronavirus outbreak.

EMERGENCY TAX DEFERMENT

As the US stock market took another hit from the coronavirus on Wednesday, Trump said he would take emergency action to provide financial relief for workers who are ill, quarantined or caring for others due to the illness.

Clean up crews at the Life Care Center of Kirkland in Washington
Clean up crews from Servpro gear up and go inside the Life Care Center of Kirkland, the long-term care facility linked to several confirmed coronavirus cases in the state, in Kirkland, Washington, U.S. March 11, 2020. REUTERS/Karen Ducey
He said he was instructing the Treasury Department to defer tax payments without interest or penalties for certain businesses and individuals affected.

READ: US House leaders unveil coronavirus Bill; Capitol tours suspended
READ: Coronavirus shifts US recession debate from 'if' to 'what shape'
Trump added he was asking for another US$50 billion in funding for small business loans to help those stricken by the economic disruption.

However, there was no declaration of a national emergency which would allow the government access instantly to extra funding.

It was not clear whether Trump's plans would calm markets, which have panicked over the mounting impact on supply lines, consumer demand and investor flight to safety.

"This is not a financial crisis," Trump said. "This is just a temporary moment of time that we will overcome together as a nation."

ELECTION CAMPAIGN DISRUPTED

Multiple cultural and sporting events have been cancelled across the United States, schools and universities are closing, and companies are scrambling to face the probability of sending many employees home on sick leave or self-quarantine.

READ: COVID-19 disrupts US schools, sports, late-night television
READ: As COVID-19 concerns bloom, performing arts world fears major hit
Even the US presidential election faces disruption, with Democratic candidates Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders canceling rallies and questions mounting over the future of Trump's own usually frequent rallies.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said earlier that the White House was "looking at providing substantial relief to certain taxpayers and small businesses who will be able to get extensions on their taxes".

"We think we can provide over US$200 billion of liquidity into the economy by delaying certain tax payments," he said.

Democratic leaders are cool on the idea of tax cuts and made a competing proposal for compensating workers' lost wages and sick leave, as well as providing loan forgiveness for individuals.

The Democratic proposal also called for disaster loans and grants for small businesses, emergency housing assistance, and loosened requirements for food assistance including continuing to serve meals to children even if schools are closed.
Singapore stocks near 4-year low as oil rout, COVID-19 fears send investors ‘dumping everything’
FILE PHOTO - People pass stock index tickers at the Singapore Exchange (SGX) premises
FILE PHOTO - People pass stock index tickers at the Singapore Exchange (SGX) premises October 17, 2013. REUTERS/Edgar Su
New Content Item
By Tang See Kit
@SeeKitCNA
09 Mar 2020 07:47PM
(Updated: 09 Mar 2020 07:55PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Singapore shares plunged to a near four-year low amid a major sell-off on Monday (Mar 9), mirroring the sea of red across Asian equity markets as investors rushed for the exits after a steep fall in oil prices and escalating concerns about the global spread of COVID-19.

Clocking losses for the third straight session, the benchmark Straits Times Index (STI) finished at 2,782.37 after diving 6.03 per cent or 178.61 points.

Advertisement

This is the STI’s lowest closing since June 2016 and its worst trading day since October 24, 2008, when it tumbled 8.3 per cent amid the global financial crisis.

Decliners trumped advancers 525 to 84 on Monday. All 30 of the STI’s constituents closed in the red.

“The market is in such a panic that investors are dumping everything. All they want now is cash,” said CMC Markets’ analyst Margaret Yang.

Monday’s market turmoil is fuelled by a free-fall in oil prices after Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, ended failed talks with Russia over supply cuts and announced massive discounts to its official selling prices, sparking fears of an all-out price war.

Advertisement

The kingdom, which currently pumps 9.7 million barrels per day, is also reportedly preparing to increase production above the 10 million barrel per day mark, according to a Reuters report.

READ: Saudi Aramco drops 10% after kingdom triggers oil price fall
READ: Oil crashes after Saudi Arabia starts price war amid slumping demand
This led oil prices to suffer a historic collapse of more than 30 per cent during Asian trade – the biggest fall since the beginning of the Gulf War in January 1991, said FXTM’s chief market strategist Hussein Sayed.

It has since pared losses, with US crude last seen about 20 per cent lower at US$33.38 per barrel as of 10.22 GMT on Monday. Brent, the global benchmark, last traded 18.2 per cent lower at $37.03 a barrel.

The latest shock to oil comes as a double blow for stock markets, which were already jittery over the global spread of COVID-19 to more than 100 countries.

Mr Paul Chew, head of research at Phillip Securities, said: “The collapse in oil price has further worsened sentiment. Emerging markets will be most exposed to collapse in commodity prices. COVID-19 is still the key headline worry for the market as infections outside China are still rising."

In Singapore, rig builder Keppel Corp tumbled 9.65 per cent or S$0.60 to S$5.62, its lowest since November 2016.

Fellow rig builder Sembcorp Industries dropped 9 per cent or S$0.16 to S$1.61, while its unit Sembcorp Marine plunged 11.39 per cent or S$0.12 to S$0.895. Both counters are at fresh record lows.

Banks were also among the main laggards on Monday – DBS closed down 8.04 per cent or S$1.85 to S$21.15; OCBC fell 6.76 per cent or S$0.69 to S$9.52 and UOB skidded 7.33 per cent or S$1.70 to S$21.50.

READ: Investor fears rise over recession, bear market as coronavirus spreads in US
READ: Dashboard of Japanese stocks with a stake in Olympics' success
This as local banks face a myriad of headwinds, according to analysts. These include expectations for weaker US Fed rates to put a squeeze on the banks’ net interest margins, slower global growth to raise asset quality risks and slow down loan growth, as well as the possibility of heightened risk from its oil and gas exposure with the latest oil market turmoil.

“All these headwinds are coming at the same time so the banks are suffering from profit-taking activities,” said Ms Yang.

Overall, while the STI's steep sell-off on Monday would "not be sustainable", there is still "some weakness" in the market, she added. 

"Right now, investors are only looking at the negative news and they just want to take their money off the table," Ms Yang told CNA.

“So I don’t think the market will bounce back quickly in the weeks to come."

The rest of Asia were not spared from the double whammy of oil price rout and worries over the COVID-19 outbreak. 

Japan’s Nikkei 225 index dropped about 5 per cent and South Korea’s Kospi index lost 4.2 per cent.

China’s key Shanghai Composite Index closed down 3 per cent and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index was 4.2 per cent lower. 

In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 index tanked 7.3 per cent.

All eyes are now on how the US stock markets fare overnight, said Ms Yang, after US stock futures fell 5 per cent and triggered a “circuit breaker” that halts trading to prevent further declines.
COVID-19: SIA cabin crew on leave of absence after passenger tests positive
FILE PHOTO: Singapore Airlines planes are pictured on the tarmac at Changi Airport, Singapore
FILE PHOTO: Singapore Airlines planes are pictured on the tarmac at Changi Airport, Singapore March 28, 2018. REUTERS/Edgar Su/File Photo
05 Mar 2020 11:51AM
(Updated: 05 Mar 2020 12:01PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Singapore Airlines (SIA) has instructed the crew members who worked on a Milan-Singapore flight last week to go on a leave of absence, after a passenger tested postive for the coronavirus.

The passenger had travelled from Milan to Singapore on flight SQ355 on Feb 24, SIA said in response to queries from CNA on Thursday (Mar 5). The passenger subsequently flew to New Zealand.

Advertisement
"Singapore Airlines has been informed that a passenger who subsequently tested positive for COVID-19 travelled on SQ355 from Milan to Singapore on Feb 24," said an SIA spokesperson.

“We are assisting the relevant authorities in Singapore and New Zealand to identify the passengers and crew who were on board the flight,” said the spokesperson.

SIA said it asked the crew on board the flight to go on a leave of absence "as a precautionary measure" and to closely monitor their health.

“The health and safety of our passengers and crew is our top priority,” it said.

Advertisement

READ: SIA announces pay cuts for management to reduce manpower costs amid COVID-19 outbreak
CNA reported earlier this month that SIA enhanced cleaning and disinfecting of its aircraft shortly after Chinese New Year.

Those measures include making changes to its in-flight services to reduce contact between passengers and crew, such as by replacing its in-flight magazines and using pre-packed wet towelettes instead of hot towels.

When on the ground, SIA flights are “thoroughly cleaned” and common surfaces such as seats and tray tables are wiped with disinfectant. The airline also changes out all headsets, headrest covers, pillow covers, bedsheets and blankets after every sector.

Fogging is done for flights from mainland China, where the virus is believed to have originated in the city of Wuhan.

READ: Singapore Airlines freezes hiring for ground positions due to COVID-19 impact
SIA added on Thursday that rigorous disinfection and deep-cleaning is conducted when there is a confirmed case of COVID-19 on board its flights. This includes fogging the aircraft to disinfect it.

“This is on top of our existing rigorous cleaning procedures,” the spokesperson said.

On Wednesday, Air New Zealand confirmed that a passenger who had travelled on a Singapore to Auckland flight tested positive for the novel coronavirus.

The passenger left Singapore on flight NZ283 on Feb 25, before travelling from Auckland to Palmerston North on flight NZ5103 on Mar 2. The woman returned to Auckland the same day on flight NZ8114. 
Singaporean student in London says he was assaulted after reacting to COVID-19 comments
Jonathan mok
Mr Jonathan Mok uploaded photos of his bruised face on Facebook. (Photo: Jonathan Mok)
Ang Hwee Min byline - smiling
By Ang Hwee Min
03 Mar 2020 11:43AM
(Updated: 03 Mar 2020 01:15PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: A Singaporean student in London said he was assaulted after he reacted to passers-by who were making comments about his race and COVID-19. 

Mr Jonathan Mok, 23, said he was walking along Oxford Street in London on Feb 24 when he heard a racist comment and the word "coronavirus" from some youths.

Advertisement
Mr Mok then turned to look at them, because he did not want them to think he was afraid and that "Asians are easily bullied".

"I felt really angry ... It is ridiculous people are being targeted for being Asian," he told CNA on Tuesday (Mar 3).

Mr Mok has lived in London for two years while studying at UCL, but travels back to Singapore during his summer holidays. 

READ: COVID-19 spreading fast outside China, airports to increase screenings
Advertisement

READ: 4 COVID-19 patients discharged from hospital, 2 new cases reported: MOH
"DON'T YOU DARE LOOK AT ME, YOU ..."

After he looked at them, Mr Mok said one of the youths shouted: "Don’t you dare look at me, you …". He did not catch the last word because of the man’s accent. 

The youths – three or four men and a woman – then approached him, Mr Mok said, adding that they "seemed no older than 20 years old, but were all more than a head taller than me". 

Suddenly, he was punched in the face twice, he said, and another attacker attempted to kick him as he tried to explain what was happening to another passer-by. 

The man who tried to kick him then said: “I don’t want your coronavirus in my country,” before punching him again, said Mr Mok. His nose started bleeding and blood was splattered all across the pavement, he added. 


The group left the scene before the police arrived. Immediately after the assault, Mr Mok said he focused on stopping his nose from bleeding, and returned home after the police and ambulance let him go. 

He also said that he has spoken to the shop owners of the store he was attacked in front of, and the police have yet to contact them regarding CCTV footage. 

POLICE URGE WITNESSES TO COME FORWARD

In response to CNA queries, London's Metropolitan Police Service confirmed on Tuesday that they are investigating a racially aggravated assault that took place along Oxford Street at about 9.15pm on Feb 24.

The victim was punched and sustained facial injuries, said the Met Police. 

Investigations are ongoing to identify the suspects, including an assessment of available CCTV, they said.

No arrests have been made, the police said, and asked witnesses to come forward.

The Met Police were unable to provide CNA with data relating to the number of racially aggravated incidents connected to COVID-19. 

READ: 'I am not a virus':  France's Asian community pushes back over xenophobia
READ: MHA to look into 'racist, xenophobic' remarks by religious teacher over coronavirus
Mr Mok told CNA that he was angry because he knew he was outnumbered, and could not fight back as they were all taller than him and he was recovering from a broken finger in an earlier incident.

Mr Mok said he has heard other similar racist comments, “but nothing so overt” so far. 

“I’ve had friends who were rejected by shops in another European city because they were Chinese, where the owners simply said they don't want the coronavirus,” he added. 

Mr Mok told CNA he is now more wary in public but tries not to allow it to affect his life. 

“I do everything as if it were normal ... I'm not afraid of these people and I refuse to let them think I am afraid of them.” 
London police arrest 2 teenagers linked to Covid-19 racist assault on Singaporean student
(From left) Images of two of the four men who allegedly assaulted Singaporean Jonathan Mok in a coronavirus-related racist attack.
(From left) Images of two of the four men who allegedly assaulted Singaporean Jonathan Mok in a coronavirus-related racist attack.PHOTOS: LONDON METROPOLITAN POLICE, JONATHAN MOK/FACEBOOK
PUBLISHEDMAR 6, 2020, 7:46 PM SGT
FACEBOOKTWITTER
Clement Yong 
SINGAPORE - The London Metropolitan Police said on Friday (March 6) that they have arrested two teenagers linked to the coronavirus-related racist attack on Singaporean Jonathan Mok in London on Feb 24.

The police said in a statement that they arrested a 16-year-old boy on Wednesday and a 15-year-old boy on Thursday, and continued to appeal for the public's help in identifying two other suspects.

This comes two days after Scotland Yard released photos of four male suspects involved in the case, which they described as a "racially aggravated assault".


The 16-year-old boy has been released but remains under investigation, while the 15-year-old is out on bail until later this month, the London Metropolitan Police said.

On Tuesday, Mr Mok, 23, opened up about the attack, which took place in Oxford Street near the London Underground's Tottenham Court Road train station, on Facebook.

The law student at University College London said he heard a group of young people say "coronavirus" as he walked past them at about 9.15pm.


When he turned to face the group, he was punched in the face, with one of the suspects saying "I don't want your coronavirus in my country" before the group fled.

Coronavirus: Don't miss alerts on the outbreak
Get e-mail updates from The Straits Times.

Enter your e-mail
 Sign up
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.

The incident resulted in Mr Mok having to go for facial surgery that is expected to take place later on Friday, reported Chinese daily Lianhe Zaobao.

Since Mr Mok's Facebook post on the incident on Tuesday, the case has prompted many to voice concerns over coronavirus-related racism, with the post garnering 67,000 reactions and shared more than 41,000 times.


The London Metropolitan Police continued to appeal for the public's help in identifying two other suspects. PHOTO: LONDON METROPOLITAN POLICE
On Wednesday, the Singapore High Commission in London said on Facebook that it was "deeply disturbed" by the attack and recognised its "broader implications" given the large Singaporean community in Britain.

It also promised to ensure that the London Metropolitan Police "follow through with their investigation with the utmost priority".

"(We) do not believe that the assault reflects the majority view of the British people in particular towards Singapore, given the close and special relationship between the UK and Singapore," the High Commission added.

Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Related Story
More shock than anger: S'porean student opens up about Covid-19 racist attack in London
Related Story
Coronavirus fears, China-bashing cast pall over Chinese-Americans in United States
Related Story
'Coronavirus' sprayed on Japanese restaurant in Paris
British High Commissioner in Singapore Kara Owen said in a tweet on Tuesday that she was "shocked and saddened by the attack", and wished Mr Mok a speedy recovery.

Since the onset of Covid-19 - the disease caused by the coronavirus which broke out late last year in China - ethnic Chinese students have reported an increase in cases of discrimination overseas.

Some have said they are shunned in public spaces just for wearing face masks, while others said they have had to bear the brunt of virus-related jokes among their peers.

In more serious cases, these confrontations become physical.

Mr Mok said in his Facebook post: "Why should anyone, simply because of the colour of their skin, be subjected to abuse, in any form, verbal or physical? Why should I keep quiet when someone makes a racist remark towards me.

"Racism is not stupidity - racism is hate. Racists constantly find excuses to expound their hatred - and in this current backdrop of the coronavirus, they've found yet another excuse."
COVID-19: Visitors from Singapore to Thailand do not need to self-quarantine, says tourism authority
Coronavirus face mask Bangkok Thailand
People with protective face masks pass in front of a thermal scanner as they enter a shopping mall in Bangkok on Jan 29, 2020. (Photo: AFP/Mladen Antonov)
04 Mar 2020 05:55PM
(Updated: 04 Mar 2020 07:36PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Visitors from Singapore to Thailand will not have to quarantine themselves amid the COVID-19 outbreak, the Tourism Authority of Thailand confirmed on Wednesday (Mar 4).

This comes after the Thailand's Health Ministry announced on Tuesday afternoon that Singapore was among nine places listed as "high-risk", and that visitors from Singapore would have to quarantine themselves for two weeks upon arrival.

Advertisement
That announcement was withdrawn on Tuesday evening, leading to confusion among tourists.

At about 4.20pm on Wednesday, the Singapore branch of the Tourism Authority of Thailand posted on Facebook about the situation.

The post read: "To date, we have not received any official government announcement on the quarantine/restriction for visitors from Singapore travelling to Thailand."

More stringent health monitoring measures to contain the COVID-19 spread are in place at all entry checkpoints into Thailand, the post added.

Advertisement

"We sincerely apologise for not being able to answer all of your calls and emails to us yesterday and today due to the high volume of requests. We hope that this notice will help you understand the current situation better," it added.


As of Wednesday morning, Thailand had reported 43 cases of COVID-19.

Last Wednesday, Thailand's health ministry advised its citizens to avoid unnecessary trips to nine countries and territories affected by the COVID-19 outbreak.

These include China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Italy, Macau, Taiwan and Iran.

READ: Thailand's tourism industry hit hard by COVID-19
On Monday, the Tourism Authority of Thailand warned that the number of foreign tourists to Thailand may fall by 6 million to 33.8 million this year, the lowest in four years, due to the coronavirus outbreak.

That was downgraded from last month's forecast for 35 million visitors this year, down 12 per cent from last year's record 39.8 million.
Singapore's exports fall 3.3% in January, growth forecast cut on COVID-19 fears
Singapore port shipping containers economy
A general view of ships docked at Tanjong Pagar container port in Singapore. (File photo: AFP/Roslan Rahman)
17 Feb 2020 09:28AM
(Updated: 17 Feb 2020 03:11PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Singapore said on Monday (Feb 17) its non-oil domestic exports declined in January, as it cut its growth forecast for the year partly due to the COVID-19 outbreak.

Exports declined 3.3 per cent in January, after a 2.4 per cent expansion in December following nine months of contraction, according to official data. 

Advertisement

READ: Singapore cuts 2020 GDP forecast to -0.5% to 1.5% due to COVID-19 outbreak
Trade agency Enterprise Singapore revised downwards its growth projection for the rest of the year to -0.5 per cent to 1.5 per cent, down from an earlier forecast of zero per cent to 2 per cent growth. 

The earlier forecast was "premised on a modest pickup in global growth, along with a recovery in the global electronics cycle", it said.

READ: Package to help households with cost of living to be announced at Budget amid COVID-19 outbreak: DPM Heng
Advertisement

However, the COVID-19 outbreak has affected Singapore's key trade partners, in particular China, which is Singapore's top export destination, the agency said.

"This may dampen the growth prospects of affected countries, if China’s growth comes in lower than earlier expected, with a knock-on impact on regional economies, through lower import demand, as well as supply chain disruptions and weakened consumer and business sentiments." 

Lower oil prices are also expected to weigh on Singapore's oil trade and in turn, total trade.

"The Energy Information Administration projected weakened global demand in the first quarter of 2020, in part reflecting the effects of the COVID-19, compared to the previous update," Enterprise Singapore said.

JANUARY EXPORT DECLINE LED BY ELECTRONIC SHIPMENTS

The decline in January exports was mainly due to a 13 per cent decline in electronic exports, though it was at a slower pace compared with the 21.3 per cent contraction in December, said the trade agency. 

Shipments of integrated circuits, personal computers and telecommunications equipment fell by 20.5 per cent, 32.2 per cent and 25.1 per cent respectively, contributing the most to the decline in electronic exports.

READ: COVID-19 to have 'significant' impact on economy, says PM Lee Hsien Loong
Non-electronic exports also fell slightly by 0.1 per cent, after an 11.5 per cent growth in the previous month. Petrochemicals (-23.2 per cent), pharmaceuticals (-5.5 per cent) and electrical machinery (-28.3 per cent) contributed the most to the decrease in non-electronic shipments.

Exports to the majority of Singapore's top markets decreased, except for US, China, South Korea and Taiwan, said Enterprise Singapore. 

Shipments to Hong Kong fell by 40.9 per cent, leading the decline, followed by Indonesia with a 22.6 per cent contraction and the EU with a 10.5 per cent drop.

On a year-on-year basis, total trade declined by 3.1 per cent in January, after a 0.7 per cent growth in the previous month. 

TOTAL TRADE FALLS BY 3.2% IN 2019

In 2019, Singapore’s total merchandise trade decreased by 3.2 per cent to S$1 trillion, compared with S$1.1 trillion in the previous year and S$967 billion in 2017. 

The decline was mainly due to a 13.9 per cent fall in oil trade amid lower oil prices than a year ago, said Enterprise Singapore.

READ: From manufacturing to retail, Singapore firms brace for supply issues amid COVID-19 outbreak
Non-oil domestic exports declined by 9.2 per cent last year, after a 4.2 per cent growth in 2018. This was due to lower shipments of both electronic and non-electronic products, said the agency. 

Electronic shipments contracted by 22.5 per cent in 2019, following a 5.5 per cent decrease in the previous year. Non-electronic exports also declined by 4.5 per cent in 2019, after an 8.2 per cent growth in 2018.

Non-oil exports, which include both domestic exports and re-exports, declined year-on-year by 1.9 per cent in 2019, following a 6.5 per cent growth last year.

NODX RECOVERY MAY BE DELAYED: ECONOMIST

Maybank Kim Eng economists Chua Hak Bin and Lee Ju Ye said they now expect a manufacturing and export recovery to only happen in the second half of 2020, when the coronavirus outbreak is contained and governments begin to unwind quarantine and border controls.

Also noting that an export recovery may have been delayed again, OCBC Bank head of treasury research and strategy Selena Ling said: “The earlier stabilization in the NODX growth story was mainly predicated on a modest improvement in global growth and demand, which appears to have been thrown off-track by the sudden COVID-19 outbreak and its attendant effects on business and consumer confidence.”

This as the virus outbreak threatens to disrupt regional manufacturing supply chains and cause slower-than expected growth in Singapore’s key trading partners in the region, including China.

“Therefore, electronics and oil trade may again underperform in 2020,” she wrote in a note.

Separately on Monday, the Ministry of Trade and Industry downgraded its economic growth forecast range for 2020 to a range of between -0.5 and 1.5 per cent.

Growth this year is likely to come in at around 0.5 per cent, the mid-point of the forecast range, amid concerns about the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak, it said.
Discharged COVID-19 patients not a threat to the community: MOH
The Ministry of Health’s director of medical services Kenneth Mak explains how COVID-19 patients are tested before they are discharged from hospital.

Singapore coronavirus discharged patient
Discharged COVID-19 patient Ms Jiang (in yellow) poses for a photo with doctors and nurses at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases. (Photo: Ms Jiang) 
Michael Yong - byline
By Michael Yong
By Emil Chan
28 Feb 2020 09:46AM
(Updated: 28 Feb 2020 10:06AM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: COVID-19 patients who were discharged from hospitals or the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID) have fully recovered and are not a threat to the community, said the Ministry of Health (MOH).

The ministry's director of medical services Kenneth Mak explained during a briefing on Thursday (Feb 27) that patients undergo several tests before they are discharged.

Advertisement
These patients are “not a threat as far as transmitting any infection is concerned”, he told reporters at a briefing.

As of Thursday, 66 of the 96 confirmed cases in Singapore have fully recovered and have been discharged.

READ: 3 new COVID-19 cases in Singapore, including 12-year-old student from Raffles Institution: MOH
READ: Raffles Institution, MOE Language Centre (Bishan) to suspend classes for a day after student tests positive for COVID-19
Advertisement

TESTS TO ENSURE FULL RECOVERY

During the briefing, questions were asked about a Japanese woman who was confirmed to have the coronavirus a second time weeks after being discharged from hospital.

A spokesperson from MOH said they were gathering information from Japanese authorities about the case.

When asked about MOH’s discharge criteria, Assoc Prof Mak said there are similarities with China’s in that patients undergo consecutive Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) tests to ensure they no longer carry the virus.

The PCR tests detect the presence of viral generic material in a patient’s biological sample.

Patient discharged from NCID Feb 16, 2020
Discharged COVID-19 patient Mrs Zhang (fourth from left) with NCID staff. (Photo: Ministry of Health/Mrs Zhang)
Doctors conduct the tests using sputum samples or nasal or throat swabs, depending on the symptoms presented by the patient.

They may also do other swab tests, including on the patient’s urine or faeces.

“In fact, in one patient they even tested breast milk, in order to be absolutely assured that the mother, who was a patient, didn’t in fact have any virus shedding in any of these fluids,” Assoc Prof Mak said.

“The doctors of NCID and the other hospitals have assured me that they have been quite disciplined and meticulous in checking, doing these tests and to make sure that all these tests on consecutive days are negative before they are assured that the patient is fit for going home.”

Patients' clinical symptoms, which include coughing and sneezing, are resolved so there is “no further concern”.

READ: From intensive care to recovery - Singaporean woman who wondered if she was dying from COVID-19 pays tribute to her medical team
"THEY ARE NOT A THREAT"

When asked about China’s use of CT scans before discharge, Assoc Prof Mak said doctors have debated about looking at imaging of lungs, as in China.

He said that in other types of lung diseases, it is “quite well known” you can see signs of the disease in X-rays or CT scans that may last “quite a number of days and weeks” even after the patient has made a full recovery.

A Transmission Electron Microscopy image of the first isolated case of the Wuhan coronavirus
A Transmission Electron Microscopy image of the first isolated case of the coronavirus, as obtained by Reuters on Jan 27, 2020. Courtesy of IVDC. (Photo: China CDC via GISAID/Handout via REUTERS)
“So they have made the decision that they would consider if necessary doing these imaging tests, but they don’t necessarily do these tests on every single patient,” he explained.

There is currently a process for calling back discharged patients for further reviews if needed. This is to “further assure themselves, the patient as well as the public” that these patients are well and have “fully eradicated” the infection.

“So all the patients who are discharged from our hospitals including NCID, the assurance is they have fully recovered from the infection, they are not shedding any further virus, they are not a threat as far as transmitting any infection is concerned.” 

READ: Japanese woman confirmed as COVID-19 case for 2nd time, weeks after initial recovery
DISCHARGED PATIENTS TOLD TO STAY AT HOME

Assoc Prof Mak said discharged patients are recommended to stay at home and to avoid crowded places.

When asked why China requests discharged patients to stay home for 14 days, the director said the main reason was because many of these patients may still be weak after recovering from the infection.

“This is really a precaution to make sure they don’t get any other infections in this situation when they are regaining their strength … recovering into full health,” he added.

He said it is “not necessarily because there is a fear that they continue to be infectious”, but that they do not catch any secondary infections while they are recovering.

A person may be fully cured from the infection and show no signs of active viral shedding, but there may be “viral fragments … for periods of time in some secretions”, including a patient’s faeces.

None of the faecal tests in Singapore have shown this evidence, he said, adding that it is a phenomenon that is known in other viral infections.

READ: 'I thought I had the common cold': Singapore's second coronavirus patient on her experience
“But when you actually find some influence of viral fragments, it doesn’t necessarily imply that this is an active infection still brewing in that particular person, and in fact they may not be at risk of spreading and infecting other people at home as well,” Assoc Prof Mak explained.

While there is still “a lot to be learnt” about COVID-19, Singapore’s clinicians and international experts are of the view that a patient has recovered fully if their secretions test negative for the virus.

"The likelihood of infecting any other person subsequently is, in fact, extremely low,” he added.
Task force formed to raise public hygiene standards beyond COVID-19 outbreak
02:53
A multi-agency task force has been formed to step up public hygiene standards in Singapore beyond the COVID-19 outbreak, authorities said on Friday (Mar 6). Lee Li Ying with more. 
2
related media assets (image or videos) available. Click to see the gallery.
New Content Item
By Nicole Chang
haziq
By Aqil Haziq Mahmud
@AqilHaziqCNA
06 Mar 2020 10:14AM
(Updated: 06 Mar 2020 10:40PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: A multi-agency task force has been formed to step up public hygiene standards in Singapore beyond the COVID-19 outbreak, authorities said on Friday (Mar 6).

The new SG Clean Taskforce, chaired by Minister for the Environment and Water Resources Masagos Zulkifli, is under the purview of the multi-ministry task force for COVID-19 announced in January.

Advertisement
Mr Masagos, who was speaking alongside Health Minister Gan Kim Yong and National Development Minister Lawrence Wong at a press conference, said SG Clean was a long-term campaign. 

"SG Clean is not a one-time exercise for COVID-19," said Mr Masagos. 


Building on the SG Clean campaign launched last month, the SG Clean Taskforce will aim to "galvanise collective action" in ensuring the cleanliness of public spaces, encouraging good personal hygiene and adjusting social norms to reduce the spread of disease, said the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources in a press release.

Advertisement

As of Thursday, Singapore has confirmed 117 cases of COVID-19. The vast majority - 81 cases - have fully recovered.

READ: 5 new COVID-19 cases in Singapore, new cluster at SAFRA Jurong reported
As part of its scope, the new task force aims to encourage the public to adjust social norms to help prevent community spread of the disease.

"For instance, many have refrained from shaking hands during this period," said the ministry. "The SG Clean Taskforce will also encourage people to use serving spoons when sharing food, eat from trays and return trays in public dining places and to keep their tables clean."

It will also encourage the adoption of good personal hygiene habits such as washing hands frequently, using a tissue when sneezing or coughing and keeping public toilets clean and dry.

"Although Singapore is generally considered a clean and green city, we want to further step up cleanliness and hygiene standards in all facets of our lives, and make these our new norms beyond the immediate COVID-19 situation," said Mr Masagos.

"This will help keep our families and communities safe and healthy."

READ: SAFRA Jurong COVID-19 cluster: Confirmed cases cleared mandatory temperature checks
Mr Wong said public hygiene was the easiest to tackle because the Government could work with cleaning companies, set standards and audit them.  

But he added personal hygiene and social norms were "more difficult" to address.

He highlighted that habits like not touching one's face and shaking hands were hard to shake off, although he said he was beginning to see changes.

"A few weeks ago if you tell people 'I don't want to shake hands', you will get sort of strange looks, but now people understand," he added.

"Some of these habits are hard to change. That’s why we do have to keep emphasising the message, we do have to ask everyone to step up this responsibility and this is the only way to fight the virus."




In a Facebook post on Friday, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong similarly stressed the importance of hygiene and cleanliness in slowing the spread of COVID-19.

"We have been quite successful identifying patients, tracing contacts and stamping out clusters," said Mr Lee. "We will keep on doing this. But we also need to slow the spread of the virus, and that means we must raise our hygiene standards.

"Better hygiene must be our first line of defence," he said.

READ: Temperature screening 'important' but not 'foolproof' in detecting COVID-19: Gan Kim Yong
Also speaking at Friday's press conference was the health ministry's director of medical services, Associate Professor Kenneth Mak, who urged travellers entering Singapore to cooperate with authorities. 

"Being socially responsible helps protect our community. Won't prevent new cases from coming ... we are a porous country," said Assoc Prof Mak.

"We ask therefore that all travellers be cooperative with us."

AMENDMENTS TO ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC HEALTH ACT

A key part of the SG Clean campaign is the SG Clean quality mark, which serves as a hygiene indicator.

Various government bodies have been working with the National Environment Agency (NEA) to audit their premises and related areas, some of which are already SG Clean certified.

NEA aims to roll out the SG Clean certification programme at premises with high human traffic and more vulnerable segments of the population by the end of the year, said the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources.

READ: 'Theoretical possibility' that COVID-19 can spread from pets to humans: MOH
As part of efforts to raise cleanliness standards in Singapore, the ministry will also make amendments to the Environmental Public Health Act later this year.

Mandatory cleaning standards will be introduced, including a regime for "pro-active routing cleaning" and disinfection at prescribed frequencies, it said.

These will cover areas such as frequency of cleaning and disinfection of high contact areas, pest management and back-of-house waste management such as bin centres.

Greater accountability will also be placed on premises' managers, who will be required to implement an environmental sanitation programme and remedy lapses in cleanliness.

They will also be required to appoint a trained designated person to help develop and implement the sanitation programme.

NEA will work with sectoral leads to progressively implement the new requirements for 2021, starting with higher-risk premises such as pre-schools, schools, eldercare facilities and hawker centres.

"It is important not just for COVID-19, but even not so long ago we had food poisoning cases at some of these pre-school centres, so we really need a higher level of hygiene for COVID-19, but also for other infectious diseases," Mr Wong said.

"The (Ministry of Environment and Water Resources) will be in a better place when they work out the details – which are the places that we are focusing on in terms of raising the level of public cleanliness."

CNA has also contacted the environment ministry for comment on penalties for non-compliance.

The other members of the task force are Minister for Social and Family Development Desmond Lee, Senior Minister of State for Health and the Environment and Water Resources Amy Khor, Senior Minister for State for Transport and for Communications and Information Janil Puthucheary, Senior Parliamentary Secretary for Education and Manpower Low Yen Ling and Senior Parliamentary Secretary for Culture, Community and Youth as well as Transport Baey Yam Keng.
Singapore leaders stand in solidarity with China over COVID-19 outbreak
Medical staff transferring a patient infected by the COVID-19 coronavirus at a hospital in Wuhan
This photo taken on Feb 22, 2020 shows medical staff transferring a patient infected by the COVID-19 coronavirus at a hospital in Wuhan in China's central Hubei province. (Photo: STR/AFP)
24 Feb 2020 09:13PM
(Updated: 24 Feb 2020 09:40PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: Singapore leaders on Monday (Feb 24) said the country stands in solidarity with the Chinese people during the COVID-19 outbreak.

The coronavirus has killed more than 2,500 people in China and infected more than 75,000. On Sunday, Chinese President Xi Jinping said the outbreak is the country’s largest-ever public health emergency since 1949.

Advertisement
Singapore President Halimah Yacob and Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong sent their condolences to those who lost loved ones during the outbreak. 

In her letter to Mr Xi, Mdm Halimah commended his “swift, decisive and comprehensive measures" to contain the COVID-19 outbreak and safeguard the health of the Chinese people.

“These measures are beginning to yield encouraging and positive outcomes. I am confident that under your able leadership, China will overcome COVID-19 with strength and fortitude," Md Halimah said.

Shortly after the outbreak started in Wuhan, the Chinese government moved to contain the spread of the virus, such as shutting down transport links in and out of the city. It also built hospitals in days to treat patients.

Advertisement

"We have seen how speedily China has mobilised itself to contain the spread, and implemented practical measures to help people affected, both in Wuhan and the rest of China," Mr Lee wrote in his letter to Mr Xi.

"We applaud China’s firm and decisive response, and are happy to see early indications that it is beginning to bring the outbreak under control.

"I am confident that with your leadership, and the support of the Chinese people and the international community, China will succeed in this urgent task."

READ: COVID-19 epicentre Wuhan revokes announcement about easing lockdown
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

During the lockdown, several nations, including Singapore, airlifted its citizens back to their home countries.

“I would also like to express my appreciation to the Chinese government – in particular the Hubei government – for its facilitation of Singapore’s efforts to repatriate our nationals and their dependents from Hubei,” wrote Mdm Halimah.

“I am also glad that we were able to assist with the repatriation of Chinese nationals in Singapore back to Wuhan. This is a testament to the strong cooperation between our countries.”

Mr Lee said China and Singapore "cooperated closely" on the repatriation of each other's nationals.

READ: 2 COVID-19 patients discharged in Singapore; 1 new reported case: MOH
He said Singapore has been affected by the coronavirus and has introduced restrictions and stepped up detection at its borders.

"We have implemented strict quarantine procedures. And we have strengthened our healthcare system, to treat and care for those who have contracted the virus. Many COVID-19 patients, including a significant number of Chinese citizens, have recovered well in our hospitals and been discharged," he wrote.

"Singapore is cooperating with China on multiple levels. Our shared experience fighting the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003 taught us that countries have to work with one another to deal with a global public health crisis."

The Prime Minister also noted that while there are similarities between COVID-19 and SARS, there are also "significant differences". 

"The scientists report that COVID-19 is probably more infectious than SARS, but less lethal. Consequently, it may take longer to bring under control, and is more likely to become endemic in human populations," he said.

READ: China postpones parliament for first time in decades over COVID-19
MEDICAL SUPPLIES, DONATIONS

Mdm Halimah added that the Singapore Government has contributed medical equipment, supplies and diagnostic test kits for COVID-19, as well as seed money to a humanitarian fund which has already raised more than S$6 million.

“I hope that our modest contributions have brought some comfort and relief to those affected by the virus,” she said.

Medical staff working at a hospital in Wuhan in China's central Hubei province
This photo taken on Feb 22, 2020 shows medical staff working at a hospital in Wuhan in China's central Hubei province. (Photo: STR/AFP)

Mr Lee also noted that Singapore had responded to China's early request for personal protective equipment, medical supplies and diagnostic test kits.

Mdm Halimah said international cooperation is "crucial to effectively combatting COVID-19".

"It is to China’s credit that its willingness to work with the international community has allowed us all, including affected countries like Singapore, to develop test kits and come up with appropriate measures to manage the outbreak together," she added.

Mr Lee said Singapore researchers are ready to collaborate with their Chinese counterparts and share their expertise to work towards a vaccine and treatment for the coronavirus.

READ: Most small firms in China yet to reopen after virus outbreak
"I am happy that Deputy Prime Minister Heng Swee Keat and Vice Premier Han Zheng have agreed to discuss cooperation in the management of public health crises at the Joint Council for Bilateral Cooperation (JCBC)," Mr Lee added.

Singapore is also cooperating on a regional basis with China and other neighbouring countries to counter the outbreak, as seen in the recent Special ASEAN-China Foreign Ministers’ Meeting on COVID-19 in Vientiane.

“Even as countries take strong measures to contain the disease in the early phases, we should begin exploring how over the longer term we can best manage the health effects of the virus on our people, while progressively restoring economic activities and international trade and travel,” said Mr Lee.

“Singapore has some ideas, which my Foreign Minister Dr Vivian Balakrishnan shared with State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi when they met in Laos last week. Our officials can discuss this further.”

READ: COVID-19 puts global recovery at risk, modest growth expected: IMF to G20
Singapore and China are marking the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations this year. Mr Lee said the two countries’ close cooperation in meeting common challenges such as COVID-19 testifies to their "strong and steadfast friendship".

“I send my best wishes for your continued success, and look forward to meeting you again soon to discuss these and other issues,” he said.

Mdm Halimah said: "I am confident that with your strong support, our two countries will continue to build on this firm foundation to further deepen and broaden the multifaceted cooperation between our two countries."
Japanese woman confirmed as COVID-19 case for 2nd time, weeks after initial recovery
Japan virus market
A woman buys food in Tokyo's Tsukiji area on Feb 17, 2020. (Photo: AFP/Charly Triballeau) 
27 Feb 2020 11:25AM
(Updated: 27 Feb 2020 05:14PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

TOKYO: A woman working as a tour-bus guide in Japan tested positive for the coronavirus for a second time, Osaka's prefectural government said on Wednesday (Feb 26), the first person in the country to do so amid growing concerns about the spread of the infection.

The second positive test comes as the number of confirmed cases in Japan rose to 186 by Thursday from around 170 the day before. 

Advertisement
READ: Two elderly in Japan dies after catching COVID-19
READ: Japan defends cautious approach on COVID-19 testing amid concerns
Tokyo has urged big gatherings and sports events to be scrapped or curtailed for two weeks to contain the virus while pledging the 2020 Olympic Games will still go ahead in the city.

The 186 cases reported by Japan's health ministry are separate from 704 reported from an outbreak on a cruise liner that was quarantined off Tokyo earlier this month. A total of eight people have died, including four from the ship.

Advertisement

The woman, a resident of Osaka in western Japan, tested positive on Wednesday after developing a sore throat and chest pains, the prefectural government said in a statement, describing her as being in her forties. She first tested positive in late January and was discharged from the hospital after recovering on Feb 1, according to the statement.

READ: Shincheonji - The secretive sect in South Korea's COVID-19 outbreak
The health ministry confirmed the case was the first in Japan where a patient tested positive for coronavirus for a second time after being discharged from hospital, the Nikkei newspaper said.

Though a first in Japan, cases of second positive tests have been reported in China, where the disease originated late last year. The outbreak has spread rapidly and widely, infecting about 80,000 people globally and killing nearly 2,800, the vast majority in mainland China.

READ: Commentary: Japan shows how not to deal with a COVID-19 outbreak
"Once you have the infection, it could remain dormant and with minimal symptoms, and then you can get an exacerbation if it finds its way into the lungs," said Philip Tierno Jr, professor of microbiology and pathology at NYU School of Medicine.

He said much remains unknown about the virus. "I'm not certain that this is not bi-phasic, like anthrax," he said, meaning the disease appears to go away before recurring.

Asked to comment on prospects for the Olympic Games going ahead in Tokyo this summer, Prof Tierno said: "The Olympics should be postponed if this continues ... There are many people who don't understand how easy it is to spread this infection from one person to another."

Japan has changed its strategy in combating the contagion, seeking to slow its spread and minimise the number of deaths.

As part of the attempt to contain the outbreak, Tokyo Olympics officials are considering scaling down the torch relay, Tokyo 2020 CEO Toshiro Muto said on Wednesday.

The government is also considering scaling back this year's Mar 11 memorial ceremony for victims of 2011's massive earthquake and tsunami, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters on Thursday.

Meanwhile a major Japanese bank reported an employee had tested positive for coronavirus. MUFG Bank, part of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc, the country's largest lender by assets, said a member of staff at a branch in central Aichi prefecture, had been confirmed to have the virus on Wednesday.
Commentary: Challenges facing the Singapore Exchange not named COVID-19
The SGX has pursued a multi-asset strategy but faces greater competition from other regional stock exchanges, says the Singapore University of Social Sciences’ Tan Eng Joo.

SGX 03 - file photo
A woman walks past the SGX logo in Shenton Way (Photo: Jeremy Long)
Tan Eng Joo
By Tan Eng Joo
01 Mar 2020 06:11AM
(Updated: 01 Mar 2020 06:20AM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: For fiscal year 2019, the Singapore Exchange Limited (SGX) recorded its highest revenue since its listing in 2000, S$910 million.

It also bagged a net profit of S$391 million, its highest since 2008.

Advertisement
Based on these glowing results, one might conclude that all is fine and dandy for SGX. But a closer look suggests the Singapore bourse faces several strong headwinds.

The spreading novel coronavirus, which likely caused the record one-day drop of 1,190.95 points in the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Feb 27, has been getting all the attention.

Although SGX has allowed firms to delay annual general meetings given challenges with holding large meetings, the overall COVID-19 outbreak’s impact on SGX itself, if negative, is likely transient and detracts from the pertinent longer-term challenges that SGX faces.

READ: Commentary: COVID-19 could redefine Singapore’s place in the global economy
Advertisement

READ: Commentary: COVID-19 - why stock prices plunged is absurd but markets could take bigger hammering soon
DIFFICULTY IN ATTRACTING LISTINGS

As the only stock exchange in Singapore, SGX has monopoly pricing power over the trading and clearing of its single-listed equity securities.

However, the market operator has struggled to attract listings. It has instead witnessed net delistings in seven of the last nine years, with the number of listed companies decreasing from 783 in 2010 to 723 in 2019.

SGX must be well aware of this trend. In an about-turn, SGX recently proposed to do away with the minimum trading price rule, which would prevent up to 53 firms on its watch-list from being delisted in June 2020.

Even homegrown companies are shunning SGX as a listing venue. Notable ones include Sea Group and Razer, which opted to list on the NYSE and the Hong Kong Exchange (HKEX), respectively. In spite of the ongoing unrest, Hong Kong continues to be the preferred listing destination for some Singapore-based firms, like CTR Holdings.

READ: Commentary: Singapore Exchange treads a fine line with relaxed reporting rules
A man walks out of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong offices on Sep 11, 2019
A man walks out of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong offices in the Central district of Hong Kong on Sep 11, 2019. (Photo: AFP/Nicolas Asfouri)
A main reason for listing elsewhere is the perception of better valuations, since businesses can raise more funds in IPOs or rights offerings in markets where stocks are valued at higher multiples.

Going public on the HKEX, for example, allows not only easier access to Chinese capital, which provides support for better valuations, but also a more visible presence in Greater China.

Among the companies that do list on the SGX, the average IPO proceeds has declined from S$380 million in 2010 to S$85 million in 2019.

The REITs sector appears to be the sole bright spot, accounting for 98 per cent of 2019 gross IPO proceeds.

The health of this sector can be mainly attributed to the favourable tax treatment Singapore REITs enjoy. Unlike Hong Kong REITs, which are taxed at corporate rates, Singapore REITs are tax-exempt provided they pay out at least 90 per cent of their income in dividends.

READ: Commentary: Razer chose to list in Hong Kong. Has Singapore lost its competitiveness?
READ: Commentary: A year of reckoning for tech unicorns but it doesn't mean investments are slowing
EQUITIES LIQUIDITY DRYING UP

Securities daily average traded value (SDAV) has fallen from S$1.5 billion in 2010 to S$1.14 billion in 2014, due in no small part to the 2013 penny stock scandal, which has affected investor confidence in the Singapore market.

The slide has since continued, albeit at a more moderate pace, to end the decade with an SDAV of S$1.04 billion.

This slower decline occurred after SGX introduced the Market Maker and Liquidity Provider Programme in June 2014, which suggests that the initiative has succeeded in partially arresting the decline.

SGX 06 - file photo
File photo of the SGX building (Photo: Jeremy Long)

Nonetheless, this initiative has come at a cost to SGX. The designated market makers and liquidity providers are given clearing fee rebates for their trouble, which effectively reduces the clearing fees SGX earns.

As an increasing proportion of trades are not full-fee trades, the average clearing fee has dropped from 3.10 basis points in 2014, just prior to the launch of the programme, to 2.66 basis points in 2019.

This decrease, which is largely due to greater participation from market makers and liquidity providers, is a sign that the Singapore equity market continues to be increasingly illiquid, which is why their intervention is needed.

The end result? A fairly persistent drop in SGX’s securities clearing revenue throughout the decade, from S$239.3 million in 2010 to S$138.9 million in 2019, reducing the contribution to SGX’s bottom line.

READ: Commentary: Investors, beware Apple’s impending share price crunch
SOME SOLUTIONS YET TO BEAR FRUIT

There are no easy answers, but SGX has not been sitting idle in the face of these challenges. It has introduced a slew of measures to entice listings and to boost liquidity in its equity market, but some have yet to gain traction.

For instance, to appeal to start-ups with share structures that have unequal voting rights and to compete with HKEX, SGX has allowed firms with dual-class share structures to list on its mainboard, but there are no takers thus far, likely because it is not the pivotal consideration in prospective issuers’ listing decisions.

Against the backdrop of muted SDAVs, SGX offered daily leverage certificates (DLCs) in July 2017. These products magnify returns of an underlying stock or equity index, and because they are classified as securities, DLC trades would increase SDAVs.

SGX file (2)
A man at the Singapore Exchange (SGX) on July 27, 2016. (File photo: AFP/Roslan Rahman)
However, although DLCs and structured warrants make up 6.21 per cent of SDAV in the second quarter of FY2018, this decreased to 3.19 per cent by the fourth quarter of FY2019.

Also, the average clearing fee is significantly lower for DLCs compared to that for cash equities, which implies smaller DLC revenue contribution for the same traded value.

EARLY DAYS FOR OTHERS

In addition, the market operator has recently abolished mandatory quarterly reporting, opting instead for a risk-based assessment as to which companies require such reporting.

This lowers compliance requirements, which are onerous and costly, but represents playing catch-up rather than conferring a competitive advantage, since companies listed on exchanges like HKEX and the Australian Securities Exchange are already not required to report quarterly.

READ: Commentary: Why economists are terrible at predicting the state of the economy
READ: Commentary: When China sneezes, the world economy catches a COVID-19 cold
Furthermore, removing mandatory quarterly reporting can inhibit price discovery since information is conveyed to the market in a less timely manner, which does not help a market that has seen dwindling traded values.

Yet another attempt to address these challenges is the introduction of the S$75 million Grant for Equity Market Singapore (GEMS) by the Monetary Authority of Singapore which, among other things, is intended to help issuers defray some of the initial listing expenses.

However, as the listing grant is only valid for three years, one can only hope that the big names that SGX successfully woos to list here will convince others to follow suit.

IMMINENT COMPETITION FOR POPULAR DERIVATIVE PRODUCT

With these challenges, how did SGX manage a record revenue for FY2019?

The average person may view SGX as a stock exchange but that was the SGX of 2010, when its securities business was its biggest revenue contributor at 46 per cent.

SGX
A general view of the Singapore Exchange (SGX) building in Singapore. (Photo: AFP/Rahman Roslan)
SGX has transformed itself over the last decade and today is more of a derivatives exchange, with this business segment making up 51 per cent of its 2019 revenues.

Although its derivatives revenue has increased significantly from S$131 million to S$459.7 million over this period, in the last five years, it has closely tracked the volume of a specific derivative contract — the FTSE China A50 Index futures, the most popular of its derivative offerings and accounts for 44 per cent of the number of derivative contracts traded in FY019.

It also happens to be the only US dollar-denominated futures offering that allows offshore access to the China A-share market, which comprises shares of Chinese companies listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges and is increasingly represented in major indexes like the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.

SGX’s dominant position may be about to be challenged by the HKEX’s recent initiative to launch MSCI China A Index futures, which saw SGX’s stock price drop from S$8.02 to S$7.26 in the five trading days surrounding the announcement.

READ: Commentary: Saudi Aramco’s US$1.5 trillion IPO flies in the face of reality
NOT ALL DOOM AND GLOOM

SGX’s multi-asset strategy has also allowed it to sufficiently diversify its revenue sources to offset the decline in its equities business.

In particular, the traded volumes of its iron ore and currency derivative contracts show promising growth.

Its diverse iron ore-related derivative offerings allow customers to trade the entire steel value chain and benefit from margin offsets, while its currency derivatives may continue to benefit from the rising convergence of over-the-counter and listed markets.

READ: Commentary: Is the global economy finally turning the corner?
With SGX’s recent S$280 million acquisition of a 93 per cent stake in Scientific Beta, a smart beta index firm, the market operator is positioning itself to capture growth in this space as the shift towards passive investing continues.

Time will tell whether these moves will be enough for SGX to overcome the headwinds, but the company has reinvented itself before, and there is hope that it will be able to reinvent itself once again.
COVID-19: New Stay-Home Notice with stricter measures for Singapore residents, long-term pass holders returning from mainland China
02:37
The Ministry of Health (MOH) on Monday (Feb 17) announced a new Stay-Home Notice (SHN) for Singapore residents and long-term pass holders returning to Singapore from mainland China.  As part of the notice requirements, such travellers will have to remain in their homes at all times during the 14-day leave period. This is stricter than the Leave of Absence (LOA) currently in place, which allows them to leave their homes briefly, for example to have their meals or buy household supplies.  Cheryl Goh reports.
2
related media assets (image or videos) available. Click to see the gallery.
New Content Item
By Jalelah Abu Baker
@JalelahCNA
New Content Item
By Hidayah Salamat
17 Feb 2020 05:34PM
(Updated: 17 Feb 2020 11:43PM)
 
 
 
 
Bookmark

SINGAPORE: The Ministry of Health (MOH) on Monday (Feb 17) announced a new Stay-Home Notice (SHN) for Singapore residents and long-term pass holders returning to Singapore from mainland China. 

As part of the notice requirements, such travellers will have to remain in their homes at all times during the 14-day leave period. This is stricter than the Leave of Absence (LOA) currently in place, which allows them to leave their homes briefly, for example to have their meals or buy household supplies. 

Advertisement
The SHN will take effect from 11.59pm on Tuesday and will apply to all returnees with recent travel history to China (outside Hubei) within the last 14 days. 


Singapore reported two new COVID-19 cases on Monday, bringing its total to 77 confirmed cases. In all, 24 patients have fully recovered and been discharged from hospital, while 53 remain in hospital.

With the implementation of the SHN, the Government will no longer be issuing LOAs to such returnees, the health ministry said. 

Advertisement

"The vast majority on the present regime would have served out their LOAs in the coming days and we will continue to ensure their compliance in the meantime," said MOH. 

READ: Coronavirus cases in Singapore - Trends, clusters and key numbers to watch
READ: COVID-19 threat could erode with time just as with H1N1, say experts
The SHN will also cover returning workers from mainland China on work passes. 

"For such workers, we already require employers to seek prior approval from the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) before they travel to Singapore. If employers need help, MOM will link them up with hotels or dormitory operators for their workers to serve out the SHN," said the health ministry.

MOH said the implementation of the SHN is "another precautionary measure we are taking to minimise the risk of additional imported cases of COVID-19". 

Similar to those placed on LOA, these travellers are not suspected to have been in close contact with confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection, nor are they unwell or display symptoms of the virus. 

"These individuals are bearing inconvenience for the benefit of the wider community," said MOH. 

"We therefore urge all landlords to cooperate and to allow their tenants who are placed on SHN to serve out their full-14 day requirements," it added. 

The Government said it will continue to implement surveillance and enforcement measures to ensure compliance to the SHN requirements. 

READ: Relief measures announced for food delivery riders quarantined for coronavirus
There will also be support for those who need help during their SHN period, for example access to food and other daily necessities. 

Singapore citizens, permanent residents and long-term visit pass holders can seek help from the People's Association. Students can get help from their schools or institutions, or the Ministry of Education. Those on work passes can look for their employers or MOM. 

1,200 PEOPLE ON QUARANTINE: LAWRENCE WONG

Speaking to reporters on Monday, Minister for National Development Lawrence Wong said that there are 1,200 people on quarantine to date.

About half of them are in Government quarantine facilities, while the rest are quarantined at home.  


The SHN is similar to the Home Quarantine Order, with differences in the requirements for physical isolation.

READ: Outward Bound Singapore camps on Pulau Ubin to be used as quarantine facility
READ: More than 180 police officers deployed at quarantine facilities across Singapore
The quarantine order is served to people who have come into close contact with individuals who have been infected, while those serving the SHN are not suspected to have had such exposure. 

Those under the Home Quarantine Order "need to be separated from other people within the home", said Mr Wong. 

In comparison, the SHN allows people to share a room with their family members, he added.

However, Mr Wong said those who live under one roof with family members under the SHN could practice "common sense" good hygiene when it comes to preparing food and the use of common utensils. 

Responding to a question, Mr Wong also said that visits from outsiders were discouraged, but if close family members wanted to visit individuals placed under the SHN, they should take "some precautions". 

The main requirement is that those served with the SHN do not leave their homes, he added. 

Officers will do surprise checks, and use technology, such as video calls to monitor people served the notice, Mr Wong said.

As in the case of quarantine orders, eligible employers of those under the SHN can apply to MOM for a S$100 daily allowance. Affected self-employed citizens and PRs under the notice can apply for the S$100 daily allowance as well.

Long-term pass holders will have their passes revoked if they flout the rules of the SNH, while Singaporeans and permanent residents may face prosecution under the Infectious Diseases Act, said Mr Wong. 





